Step Shift
When zoomed into a Step, turning the DIR encoder will either advance all steps to the right of the
step flashing in row 0 one complete step, or will move all steps to the right of the flashing step one
complete step closer to the flashing step (provided the first step to the right of the flashing step is
toggled off and not a Skip Step or Step Event).
Any steps that are advanced beyond Step 16 will be lost unless an 'over-run track' is configured, see
Page Edit Preview mode for further information.
Note: The position of a hyper-step does not change, shifted steps 'hop-over' a hyperstep.


Exiting STEP mode
If you want to exit the STEP mode, you may press ESC anytime to find yourself back in the PAGE
mode. Another option is to go back to the PAGE mode by pressing the PAGE mode button in the
MODE selector section of the front panel.


Step attributes
Going over the front panel from left to right, you see all LEDs lit up in the SEL column.

Step velocity (VEL)
The contents of the VEL row may look familiar - a number is represented here, with the Red LEDs
counting the tens and the Green LED pointing to the ones value. This value may be changed in a
more conventional fashion by simply turning the VEL knob.
The step velocity offset may be a positive or negative number. Negative offsets are shown in the
same manner as positive offsets, but additionally the 3 LEDs in columns 14-16 are lit Green.
Please note that the total velocity of a step is determined by adding the individual step velocity
offset to the base Track velocity. This allows a wide range of velocities in a track while still giving
you one place (the track velocity) to adjust them all up or down and still maintain the relationships
set for each step.

Step pitch (PIT)
As you may expect, the PIT row shows the pitch value for the step.
The number displayed is really an offset that the step applies to the track pitch. The combined pitch
of the track and the step is shown in a musical fashion in the inner circle.
Turning the PIT knob will now cause the obvious - it will change the pitch for the step, which you
will hear once the step is played.
Just as for velocity, step pitch may be a positive or negative offset relative to the base track pitch.
Negative offsets are shown in the same manner as positive offsets, but additionally the 3 LEDs in
columns 14-16 are lit Green.

Step length (LEN)
The same principles apply to all the other step attribute values in the page, except for the display of
their values.
Change the length on the step by turning its LEN knob. As you increment the value (turning the
knob clock-wise) you will see a Green dot advancing up to 11 after which the Red value will be
incremented.
Each Green increment corresponds to 1/192 of a note and each Red value corresponds to 12/192 =
1/16 of a note.




       15                      Octopus Reference Manual CE v5.30                             15
