As you turn the GRV encoder to the right you will see the phrase number increase from 1 to 16 (0
means no phrase is selected). Once 16 is reached in a bank, the colour of the pointer LED will
switch to the next bank, as you can tell from the colour.

Step phrase time compression (POS)
The POS value will become visible as soon as a phrase is selected from the pool for the respective
step and represents the time compression value for the particular step phrase. A value of 8 is
neutral.
Values lower than 8 will speedup the playback of the phrase, while values greater than 8 will slow
down the playback.

Step MIDI continuous controller (MCC)
The MCC value represents the amount of MIDI CC sent at this particular step position. This of
course only applies when the track is told to do so. *More on this in the TRACK view.
The display uses a decimal representation similar to that used for VEL, with the exception that is
has a "void" value, indicated by 4 Green LEDs in the last positions of the track. This means that no
value is sent out on that track - since 0 would be a valid value for a MIDI continuous controller.
If set to any value other than "none" then the chase light will be Orange rather than Red.
*Attribute at Track level sets the MCC control for that Track,
i.e. '10' = Pan.
Attribute at Step level sets the amount of 'Pan' (in above case),
i.e. '64' = 'centre'.


Quick Step Attribute edit via matrix keys
When in Step zoom it is possible to edit Step attribute value with either their respective edit knob or
via entering values with the matrix keys.

For attributes that have integer values (VEL, LEN, AMT, MCC) a double-click will set a 10's value
& a single-click will set a 1's value. Additionally, the following 'quick keys' are available:-

                      Step 13         Step 14          Step 15            Step 16
Attribute              Click                            Double-click
Velocity            Invert value       Clear            Clear              Clear
Pitch               Invert value      Default       Octave - (8vb)    Octave + (8va)
Amount              Invert value       Clear            Clear        Value -127 (mask)
MCC                      -             Clear            Clear              Clear

Double-click of a Step Phrase (GRV) button will advance to the next Step Phrase Group.


Ghost toggle
Press and hold pressed two or more step buttons placed in separate rows but in the same column.
Let's use for instance the rows 3 and 4.
Press a step in row 3 and at the same time a step in row 4 - and make sure you do not release the
buttons yet.
Now toggle steps in row 3 - and you will see that the steps in the same column of row 4 will be
toggled as well. Or you may press steps in row 4 and see the steps in row 3 toggle as well. We call
this behaviour "ghost toggle".




       17                      Octopus Reference Manual CE v5.30                             17
