Working with step selections

Inverse step selection editing
In PAGE mode, active step selections are edited using the EDIT encoders for the respective
attribute.
Additionally, when a step selection is active, the steps that are not selected, in the tracks that contain
selected steps, may be edited as well,
using the MIX encoders of the respective attribute.
For example, assuming a step selection is active with steps selected in tracks 2 and 4, the EDIT
encoder PIT modifies all steps in the step selection, while the MIX encoder will modify the pitch of
all steps that are not currently selected in the tracks 2 and 4.

Step selection stores
In PAGE mode, active step selections are stored for later recall in one of 5 stores available per page.
This allows to group steps and modify them at once beyond track boundaries.
The stores 1-5 are accessible while a step selection is active via the buttons labelled 1,2,3,4,5 in the
MIX TARGET row below the matrix.
For example: To make a step selection hold the SEL button pressed and click on at least one active
step (Green) in the page. You should see the selected step flash Green and the current selection
indicated by the flashing light in the MIX TARGET row. By default it should be 1.
Now press the 2 key in the MIX TARGET area and the selection will disappear. This is because
step selection 2 is empty. Let's fill it. Press and hold the SEL button and select another step or more
and watch them flash.
Press the 1 in the MIX target area and you should see your previous selection flash active. You can
toggle between your selections at will using the MIX TARGET buttons, and use the encoders to
really bend your material.

A track selection occupies the same ‘virtual space’ as a step selection, however a track selection is
‘stored’ on the Sel button (Sel led Red), and if all tracks are de-selected the Sel led is off (no track
selection stored). On the other hand, whilst holding the Sel button, Step Selections may be stored on
locations 1 to 5 – however, although these step selections may be de-selected they still remain in the
allocated store location AND with that store location selected it is not possible to make a track
selection!
Therefore, it is important to not store step selections to all 1 - 5 locations, leave one empty, if the
multiple track selection function is wanted on that page.

Remove Step Selection Store
With a step selection active, simply click the ESC button and the SEL button will effectively be
disengaged and the current step selection will be deleted from the current store location.

Rebooting the sequencer will delete all step selection stores, whereas a track selection is stored
with the page.


Add all active Steps to the current Step Selection
With a Step Selection active, double-click on the current Selection Slot
button (flashing Orange) to add all Steps that are toggled On to the current Selection.
This can be used as an alternative way to correct any Slave Clock Recorded latency (using the STA
rotary).




       18                       Octopus Reference Manual CE v5.30                              18
