Step chords

Steps may play more than one pitch at a time, effectively forming chords. Chords can be directly
programmed in, or directly recorded from, a MIDI keyboard (see the section on MIDI IN
Recording) into a step.
The next section will assume we are working in STEP mode. To follow along, please make sure to
enter STEP mode before we move on.
To set the stage, while in STEP mode, notice the CHORD button block at the bottom right of the
front panel. By default the single note chord button should be lit Orange.

Chord Modes
There are two Chord modes, Chord View mode - which is the original mode unchanged, and Octave
View mode, they both display chord note data but in two different ways.
As before, when zoomed into a step, holding any of the Chord buttons will display the Chord notes
in the inner circle - but now, the Select led is Orange and clicking the Select button (whilst
continuing to hold a Chord button), will switch to the new chord mode and the Select led will
change to flashing Orange - indicating you are now in chord “Octave View”
- when in Chord View mode everything looks and works, as it did before
- when in Octave View mode you can navigate between the chord octave layers by clicking one of
the 3 highlighted ‘octave’ buttons at the bottom of the inner circle, labelled MOD, SEL & CAD
(default octave 1 selected) moving between 1-3 octaves respectively, the current octave will be
flashing Orange.
Entering a Step Chord containing a note which is the same 2 or more several octaves may only be
done in Octave View mode.
By default the original Chord View mode is shown when clicking a Chord button, however, it is
possible to double-click any chord button to enter Octave View directly (make sure you continue to
hold the Chord button after the double-click). With a Chord button held its the Select button that
switches between chord modes.

Chord ground rules for Chord View mode
Step chords are formed of up to 7 notes which may range over up to three octaves. The chord is
made up of the step pitch as the base and additional notes that are stacked “on top” and which are
always higher than the base pitch. This means of course that changing the PIT offset of the step will
also transpose the chord.
The chord display should be read as follows: the base pitch of the step flashes Orange. Notes within
one octave (12 semitones) of the base pitch will light Orange. Notes in the second octave up light
Green, and notes in the third octave up light Red.
To toggle the notes manually in and out of the chord following toggle sequence applies: off >
Orange > Green > Red > off.

Building chords in Octave View Mode
It should be noted that the note colour scheme is radically different in Octave View mode as much
more information is being conveyed when viewing the chords 'octave view'.
Enter Octave View mode by double clicking (and continuing to hold) any Chord button, the Select
led will flash Orange. Assuming the step is turned on and contains a single note, the root note will
be flashing Orange - also the MOD led will be flashing Orange, the SEL & CAD leds will be lit
Green, this is telling you that you are view octave 1 of the chord. Other notes (in this octave) may
be turned on or off by clicking their respective buttons - if turned on their led(s) will be Orange.




       20                     Octopus Reference Manual CE v5.30                            20
