Now click the SEL button and its led will change to flashing Orange - this means we are now
looking at the octave above the root note (octave 2) and any notes that were entered in octave 1 will
now be shown with Red leds (the chord root note will be flashing Red).
The Red led(s) simply means that the note exists in a different octave to the one you are currently
viewing.
Again steps can be toggled on and off, and again when turned on they will be Orange unless the
note already exists in octave 1 in which case the note led will turn Green - signifying that the note is
on in this octave and also another octave.
Now click the CAD button and its led will change to flashing Orange - this means we are now
looking at the next octave up (octave 3), which works in similar matter to the previous octaves.
The led of a note that exists in all three octave will Shine_Green and if the root note exists in all
three octave will Shine_Red.

See chart below for Octave View mode note signalling:-

Chord Octave View Note Input
When viewing the Chord Octave UI the inner circle displays the 12 note status within chord that is
relative to the selected octave.

UI Location                    State Description
Note LED ORANGE                Note IS set ONLY in currently viewed octave
Note LED GREEN                 Note IS set in currently viewed octave AND also in
                               another octave
Note LED RED                   Note NOT set in current octave, but IS set in one or
                               more of the another octave(s)
Note LED ORANGE                Chord root note
FLASH
Note LED                      Note IS set in ALL 3 Octaves (full stack)
SHINE_GREEN
Note LED SHINE_RED            Note IS set in ALL 3 Octaves (root note full stack)
Note: Although chord notes may be turned on or off in either chord mode if the root note is 'stacked'
then they can only be turned off in Stack View mode.

Adding Octave spaced notes
If there are no notes at a pitch in any of the available octaves then double-clicking the note will
turn-on that pitch in all three octaves.

Removing Octave spaced notes
From any 'octave view', if there are notes at a pitch in other octaves (i.e. led, Red, Green or
shine_Green) then, double-clicking the note will turn that note on in the current octave, and any
note(s) at that pitch off in the other octaves. Removing notes at the octaves above the root note is
accomplished by turning them off in their respective octaves.


Note: Although chord notes may be turned on or off in either chord mode if the root note is 'stacked'
then notes at the other octaves can only be turned off in Octave View mode.




       21                      Octopus Reference Manual CE v5.30                             21
