Editing step phrases

Enter The Phrase Editor
To enter the phrase editor, double click a step, and then double click the GRV button in the SEL
column. The phrase editor mode is easily recognized, since all of the 7 chord note LEDs on the right
are lit.
Equally, you may access the phrase editor by entering track mode (double click one of the track
selectors), and then double click the GRV button on the SEL column.

The bottom row (Row 0)
The bottom row of the matrix (row 0) shows the index number of the phrase currently being edited,
by a flashing LED of the corresponding colour. If you see nothing shown there, you're looking at
phrase #0, the default setting for a step, and which has no effect, i.e. plays the step as is. Turn the
main- or GRV rotary to change phrases and switch the view accordingly.
The 7 Green note LEDs are mostly there to tell you that they may be pressed: to set the optional
phrase polyphony, press one of the note buttons to make it flash Orange. To restore the phrase to
normal, full polyphony, press the flashing note button again, and the flash will disappear.

The Matrix
The matrix shows one of the four main attributes (VEL, PIT, LEN, STA) of all 8 phrase notes
together, one note per row. Row #1 shows the data for phrase note #1, row #2 shows note #2, etc.
A Green LED lit at the end of the row means that the phrase has a note defined for that line. If you
don't see any Green LEDs lit on those lines, you know the phrase has a zero note count. A Red LED
is shown there only for phrase #0, which is read-only.
Top row always shows the phrase type coded as a number of Orange LEDs. The available phrase
types are as follows:
        Type 1:        Forward: notes are played in the order 1,2,3..
        Type 2:        Reverse: notes are played in the order 8,7,6..
        Type 3:        Random pitch programmed notes pitches are played in random order,
                       determined at playtime.
        Type 4:        Random all: programmed note attributes played in random combinations,
                       determined at playtime.
For example, 4 Orange LEDs means the phrase has type Random all, as described above.

MIXER Block
The top four Orange LEDs in the MIXER block indicate the attributes available for editing, which
are VEL, PIT, LEN and STA in top-down order. The currently active attribute is flashing Orange.
To select another attribute, simply press the associated button. This will change the content shown
in the matrix.
The rotaries in the MIXER block are used to change the currently selected attribute for the note on
the matching row. The rotary of row #9 at the top is used to change the phrase type.

Mutator block
The following buttons in the MUTATOR block are supported:

CLR
The CLR button will clear the whole phrase to empty, if the phrase was non empty. When pressed
again (in an empty phrase), it will restore to the factory pre-set phrase.
When pressed while grabbing one of the four Orange attribute buttons in the MIXER block, CLR
will only clear the data of the selected attribute.




       27                      Octopus Reference Manual CE v5.30                             27
