Hypersteps

Let's start with a short background, to help explain the idea of hypersteps. Normally steps trigger
notes in the following sense: they provide the start, the velocity, and the length (playtime) of the
played note.

Now imagine that the played note is not "only" a note but rather a
note sequence. And imagine the step is now providing the start, velocity and playtime of the note
sequence, such that the note sequence always plays to its end, always time-adjusted to the given
playtime.
The final bit of the picture here is that our presumed note sequence may be a track which is
controlled by a step in the manner described.
We call such a step a hyper step. In short, hypersteps are steps that do not trigger notes, but trigger
tracks in their respective page.
Therefore, if a track is linked to a hyperstep, once the hyperstep is played, the track is being
triggered to play at a speed corresponding to the step absolute length (in 1/192), and taking over the
hyperstep's velocity and pitch offset.

On making a step a hyperstep is LEN is automatically set to 192/192 and on destroying a hyperstep
the step LEN is reset to the default value of 12/192.
Scaling the Track LEN of the track containing the hyperstep will scale the hyped-track tick length,
speeding up the hyped-track. The maximum length of a hyped-track is 192 ticks, however Step
LEN within the hyped-track can be increased by 'skipping' steps. - see Hyperstep LEN Reference
below:

By muting steps in the hyperstep track the number of steps played in the hyped-track is also
reduced.

Hyperstep PIT and VEL
In addition to a ‘Hypedtrack’ being controlled by the Hyperstep LEN, the Hyperstep PIT and VEL
also control the hypedtrack pitch and velocity. Therefore, the hypedtrack will assume both the pitch
and the velocity values of the hyperstep.
Changes to the hyperstep PIT and VEL will influence the hypedtrack in real-time – hence changing
the hyperstep PIT or VEL offsets will influence the hypedtrack steps at the position of the chase
light !


Engaging hypersteps
To use hypersteps, go to PAGE mode, hold a track selector down, and at the same time designate
the hyperstep in the matrix, in a row other than the track's (by pressing it down as well). You will
see that both the track selector and the hyperstep start flashing between green & orange.
There can be multiple hypersteps in one track (pointing to different hyped-
tracks) but a hyped-track can only have one associated hyperstep.
Hypersteps cannot be 'nested', i.e. it is not possible to have a hyperstep
within a hyped-track.

Destroying hypersteps
To disengage or destroy the hyperstep of a hyped track, hold the respective track selector of the
hyped track pressed and then press any step button in the matrix row of the hyped track. The
association between the step and the track will be removed.



       31                      Octopus Reference Manual CE v5.30                             31
