Step events

Steps may be used to generate so called events. Events are simply automated changes that happen at
runtime. In general terms, an event is a programmed change of the attributes of a track and is
attached to a step. All track attributes may be modulated by events.
The finer definition is however, that for the DIR, POS, and MCH events the track attribute value
changes, while in the case of the other attributes, (VEL, PIT, LEN, STA, AMT, GRV, and MCC)
what changes is really the attribute map factor of any steps having offsets from the track value.
Please refer to the section on attribute maps for details.

Creating events
To create an event, double click on a step to zoom into it, and select one of the attributes in the SEL
column. As discussed earlier, initially these are all lit, waiting to be selected. Once selected as an
event, they will flash.
You will notice that some are coloured Orange, some Green. The Orange
attributes indicate that their events will influence the attribute map factor, while the events for the
Green ones will change the attribute value directly.

The step led of an event will be Orange.

Note: If the 'Play' button is set to flashing Orange (Play Mode) then the events will not be retained
when the sequencer is 'stopped'.

Set event values
The amount (AMT) value of the step determines the change in the track attribute every time the step
is played.
In the case where the set amount is larger than the possible value range of the target, a modulo
operation will be carried out to bring it into the range. Note that the changes can be positive or
negative, according to the amount value.

Random event values
Random event values, via a non-zero value of the GRV attribute for the step generating an event, is
a disabled feature in version 1.6203 and later.

Clearing events
Events may be cleared from a track by zooming into the step and pressing the flashing SEL attribute
button so it is solid Orange or Green again.

Event range settings
Sometimes it makes sense to limit the range in which the event change occurs to a value below the
size of its natural range. Those MAXIMUM values are 17 for each of the attribute map factors, 16
for DIR and 32 for MCH.
POS Step Event changes the Track POS, not the Step POS(GRV)
DIR Step Event will change on the following step (this is only relevant when using a custom DIR
with multiple steps per slice).
To change the size of the interval used by events, proceed as follows:
Go into STEP mode, i.e. zoom into your respective step. Activate an event and you should see the
current size of the event interval for the selected attribute displayed numerically in the numeric field
of the outer circle. Use the main rotary to adjust it to your desire.




       34                      Octopus Reference Manual CE v5.30                             34
