Step Event Track Toggles

By using Step Event Track Toggles certain Track conditions can be controlled on a per step basis,
toggle options are Mute, Solo, Record, Pause and Rotate. It should be noted that unlike Step Events
which effectively 'scale' an attribute, Track Toggles are a 'one time' toggle of the relevant track
condition.

Creating Track Toggle Events
To create an event, double click on a step to zoom into it, then click one of the Map select buttons
below the matrix (lit orange) as follows:-

       Mix Target MAP 1 button will activate a Track Mute Toggle
       Mix Target MAP 2 button will activate a Track Solo Toggle
       Mix Target MAP 3 button will activate a Track Record Toggle
       Mix Target MAP 4 button will activate a Track Pause Toggle

When activated the relevant led will be flash orange and subsequently the chosen Event values will
be used to the set the Event to either an 'On' toggle (e.g. Mute On) or an 'Off' toggle (Mute Off).

Alternatively, the Track Toggle Event may be configured to 'flip-flop' mode, whereby each time the
Toggle Event is triggered the Track will Toggle to the opposite condition.
To activate 'flip-flop' mode double-click the relevant Mix Target Map button - once activated in
'flip-flop' mode, the relevant led will be shine_green.

The step led of an event will be orange.


Track Rotate
Track Toggle Rotate is not mentioned above as it works in a slightly different manner, it is simply a
Rotate Event which is applied to the Track ('On', 'Off' & 'flip-flop' concepts are not applicable).

To create a Track Rotate event, double click on a step to zoom into it, then double-click the POS
attribute button once selected it will shine_green. To clarify, a single click of the POS attribute
button will setup a Step Event POS (led will show orange), or a double-click will activate a Track
Rotate Event (led will shine_green).
Note: Switching between Step Event POS & Track Rotate will reset the AMT attribute to default.

A Track Rotate Event will move all steps (including Step Events & Track Toggle Events), with the
exception of Skipped Steps or Hypersteps.

Additionally, steps can be 'masked' (excluded) from the Track Rotation !

Steps included in the Track Rotation will 'hop-over' Steps that are excluded thus the sequence will
change to a greater or lesser amount depending on the number of 'excluded steps'.

To 'mask' a step from the Rotate Event, set its Amount (AMT) attribute to -127 (as in the Effector
Step Mask option). Step Events can also be 'Masked' by setting their VEL attribute to -127.


Note: If the 'Snapshot' button is set to red (Snapshot Mode) then the events will not be retained
when the sequencer is 'stopped'.



       38                      Octopus Reference Manual CE v5.30                            38
