Track Skip Rotate
Track Skip Rotate works in a similar way to Track Rotate, except only the skip condition will
Rotate, not the steps themselves.

To create a Track Skip Rotate event, double click on a step to zoom into it, then double-click the
DIR attribute button once selected it will shine_green. To clarify, a single click of the DIR attribute
button will setup a Step Event DIR (led will show orange), or a double-click will activate a Track
Skip Rotate Event (led will shine_green).
Note: Switching between Step Event DIR & Track Skip Rotate will reset the AMT attribute to
default.

When rotating the Step(s) Skip condition it is possible to apply Step Mask in two ways, firstly, a
Step whose AMT attribute is -127 will not have the Skip condition applied, and secondly, if a
Skipped Step has its AMT attribute set to -127 will not rotate.
Additionally, Step Events can also be 'Masked' by setting their VEL attribute to -127.


Track Toggle Event Values settings
The amount (AMT) value of the step determines which track the Track Toggle Event will be
applied to - thus the Event Track Toggle can be applied to tracks' other than itself.
In the case of Mute/Solo/Record & Pause track toggle, a positive value is an 'On' toggle and a
negative value is an 'Off' toggle.
For example, a Track Toggle Mute Event with a value of +3 will Mute Track 3, likewise a Track
Toggle Mute Event with a value of -4 will Un-Mute Track 4.

Note: An AMT value of zero is an 'off' value therefore to apply a Track Toggle Event specifically to
the lowest track in the matrix (Track 0), use AMT value = '10'

In the case of a Rotate track toggle, a positive value will rotate the track in a forward direction and a
negative value will rotate the track in a backward direction.

Track Toggle Event Range settings
The Range attribute is used to configure the number of tracks that will be toggled by the chosen
Event. For example, a Track Toggle Mute Event with a value of +3 & Range value of 2, will Mute
Track 3 & Track 2.
Range has a maximum value of 10 (all tracks).
Please note that Range value will 'wrap' to higher tracks in the matrix, therefore if a Track Toggle
Mute Event has an AMT Value of +1 & Range value of 4, then Tracks 1 & 0 and Tracks 9 & 8 will
be Muted.
Range is a track attribute, and as such, it is only possible to set one Range value per track per
Track Toggle type.

Note: In a change to legacy behaviour Step Event POS can be applied to additional tracks using the
Range Value.

Controlled Muting of Track Toggle Event(s)
Track Toggle Events occur whether or not the track is muted. There is however, one exception that
enables extended control of Track Toggle Events, as follows:-
If the Toggle Events on a Track only influence other tracks in the matrix (i.e. the Track containing
the Toggle Event(s) is not within the Range value of the Event) then muting the Track will
effectively prevent the Track Toggles from being applied to the target tracks.



       39                       Octopus Reference Manual CE v5.30                             39
