To Pause or not to Pause
A Paused Track cannot be Un-Paused by itself, it can only be switched back to the Play condition
by either a Track Toggle Un-Pause Event by a track which is playing, or manually (keyed).

Understanding Event execution
Another detail that may be of interest is that events will always execute exactly on the beat and not
be influenced by the step's STA value to be pulled or pushed against the time line.
Additionally, a Track Toggle Event is executed before the step plays - which means that if a Track
Toggle Mute 'On' Event is placed on Step 5 then the Mute Toggle occurs before the step plays, so
no note will be sent (provided the note itself has not been pulled against the timeline).

All tracks are processed by the sequencer in a top-down manner, this means that when a Track
Toggle Event is applied to tracks higher in the matrix it will be executed on the following step.

Clearing events
Events may be cleared from a track by zooming into the step and pressing the flashing MAP
attribute button so it is green again (or setting its Event AMT value to 0).

Step Event Considerations:

1. If the Velocity is 0 then the note is not transmitted.
2. When 'shifting' maps (Track POS) a step event will remain on its original step, it will not 'shift',
hence the AMT attribute of all steps remain on its original step.
3. Attributes DIR, POS & MCH are absolute, i.e. if DIR is 6 a Step Event of '+2' will change it to 8.
4. Step AMT of '0' will not reset POS, DIR or MCH values. These must be reset using the opposite
amount of the values by which they were changed.
5. Track attribute AMT scales its own offset and is therefore best left at the 'neutral' value.
6. DIR Step Event will change on the following step (this is only relevant when using a custom DIR
with multiple steps per slice).
7. DIR will default to the Track attribute amount when the sequencer stops and changes made using
Step Events may be viewed as they occur in Page ATR view and in Track Zoom.
8. MCH will also default to the Track attribute amount when the sequencer stops and but changes
made using Step Events may only be viewed as they occur in Track Zoom.
9. POS does not restore to the start POS(ition) when stopping the sequencer.
10. POS Step Event changes the Track POS, not the Step POS(GRV).
11. v5.30... POS Step Event can now be applied to additional tracks using the Range Value.

Step Event Track Toggle Considerations:

1. Tracks are processed by the sequencer in a top-down manner, this means that when a Track
Toggle Event is applied to tracks higher in the matrix it will be executed on the following step.
2. Unlike rotating the track using the POS encoder (or a POS Step Event) the underlying value of
the Step AMT attribute is also rotated, this allows any Step Event to be rotated.
3. If a track is part of a Track Chain it may be toggled to Pause even if a different member of the
Track Chain is currently playing.
4. Track toggles of Mute & Solo when a track is part of a Track chain will be dependant on the
condition of the Track Base switch.
5. Track Toggle Events of Mute & Solo are subordinate to the On-The-Measure mode condition of
the Page.




       40                      Octopus Reference Manual CE v5.30                            40
