The pitch is set to the default value of 60. Note that the factory pitch assignment can be recalled by
calling the CLR mutator upon a PAGE. If you are at the PAGE level and grab a Track and clear it,
everything is reset.

Track randomize (RND)
This will create a random step pattern in the track, not affecting the other parameters in the track.

Track FLAT (FLT)
The FLT function is used mainly to combine the pitch content of several tracks into just one track in
the same page.
This function was conceived as a creative tool and not as a track space-saving feature, as it may
appear at first sight. In some instances it may be useful as such, but just in some. Please keep this in
mind!
FLT will only become available when you have selected two or more tracks in a page. There is a
notion of a destination track, which is always the one from the selection with the lowest index.
Applying FLT to the track selection will fill the destination track with content from the source
tracks.
For every active step in any of the source tracks, you will get the corresponding step activated in the
target track. Skipped steps will simply be ignored.
If more than one step is active in the same column across the selected tracks, the lowest 7 pitches of
active steps will get stacked to form a chord on the respective step in the destination track.
Note that if source track steps contain chords already, only their base pitch will be considered for
FLT. The additional chord data in the source tracks will be ignored.
The base pitch of the resulting chord will be the lowest pitch encountered in the respective column,
with the other found pitches being stacked on top.
Another detail worth mentioning is the influence of FLT on the VEL, LEN and STA values of the
steps in the destination track. FLT always carries over the VEL, LEN and STA attributes of the last
encountered active step for a particular column/position inside the destination track.
Also something to realize is that FLT is MIDI channel agnostic - you may FLT different tracks
playing on different channels, but the result will always play on the MIDI channel of the destination
track.
With that in mind, let us suggest two best practice usage methods for FLT. Firstly, before you are
applying FLT to your track selection, make sure the target track is muted.
This way you do not get any double notes playing if the target track is set to the same MIDI channel
as any source tracks. You then can do a smooth blend-in of the new material, which may be useful
when playing live for example.
Secondly, you may want to make sure the target track MIDI channel is different from any of the
source tracks before you apply FLT. This will effect the obvious - the new material is going to
sound fresh right away. And of course you can use both of these techniques combined to achieve
the result that is best for you!

Step GRV is always reset to '0' when using FLT unless source and destination tracks have the same
GRV settings.

Track zoom (ZOM)
The ZOM key is used to zoom into and out of certain views - in this case it would zoom out of the
Track mode and back into the Page mode. The fact that you are zooming out is indicated by a Red
LED light, as opposed to a Orange one.
When in page mode, hold one track selector down and press ZOM to zoom into the track - this has
the same effect as a double click on the track selector. We will talk a bit more about the ZOM
mutator when we describe the MAP mode.



       42                      Octopus Reference Manual CE v5.30                             42
