Track chaining

Track chains explained
A track chain is simply a defined sequence of playing tracks from a page, in a given consecutive
order. Track chains are always configured in PAGE mode and are useful in creating structures
longer than 16 steps per page.

Playing considerations
Chain configurations may or may not influence the set track parameters. Each track can be played
as it is, or each track's steps may be played using the same set of track parameters as its base.
While the pre-set chain modes were covered in the start-up section, we shall now look closer at
flexible track chain configurations.

Selecting chain members
While in PAGE mode, define first the group of tracks that you would like to chain by creating an
appropriate selection.

Creating a track chain
While the selection is active (flashing Orange), press the 'X' (XXVIII) button to build the chain
made up by these tracks.
You will now see that they start playing in sequence. The play sequence is per default top to bottom
(i.e. row 9 to row 0).
There are cases when you will see this order changed as a result of some more interaction with the
chain structures inside a page. This has to do with the way a chain is defined internally.

Under the hood
Every chain has a head and a tail. The head is a track, while the tail may be made of none, one or
more other tracks.
When you create a selection, the top track of a selection will be defined as the head of the new
chain, and the other selected tracks will make up the tail.
Should any of the newly chained tracks have been part of a chain before (regardless if head or tail);
they will be removed from their original chain(s) and added to the new one. The original chains will
simply get reduced by the tracks re-allocated to the new chain.

Showing track chains
Once a track chain has been created, you can also easily see how it is spread across the page.
Simply select a track that is part of a chain, and you should see the following information in the
selector LED column.
The track selected (one you have your finger on) is flashing Orange.
Other track members may be lit Green and Red. In Red you can recognize the head track of the
chain, in Green the other chain members that are not the head.
If the head and the selected track are the same, you will only see a flashing Orange LED.

Removing Track Chains
Press the Track button of the Track you wish to remove from the chain and click the 'X' (XXVIII)
button

What about pre-set chains?
By now you may wonder, what about the pre-set chain configurations on offer? Well, they are
nothing more that pre-set chain configurations with shortcut buttons.




       47                      Octopus Reference Manual CE v5.30                            47
