Please note that during play, switching the clock multiplier is effective immediately with no
quantization with regard to the master tempo.
Realignment of the tracks may always be done by using the ALN functionality available.
Note that when the sequencer is playing, the changes of the track clock multiplier are effective on
the next 1/16th beat of the master clock and not immediately. This provides better track alignment
and improves the general feel of the sequence without the need to explicitly align after a track clock
switch.
Note: When using track multipliers of less than 1 (reduced speed) the maximum Step STA advance
(Green) will be 12 ticks with reference to the x1 speed.

Track Pause/re-trigger
A track may be paused by grabbing the track (holding the appropriate track selector pressed) and
pressing the Pause transport button. The procedure applies also to a selection of more than one
track.
To move a paused track back to the Play condition, hold the appropriate track selector and click the
transport Play button.
Note: If more than one track is paused any step advance, or restart, will be applied to all paused
tracks.

Track Pause/Play Alignment
In a change to legacy behaviour - when moving a track from Pause to the Play condition, the track
will commence to play on the next 1/16 beat of the global clock. This ensures that the track remains
syncronized with the other tracks without the need to explicitly align the track after the change.
Advancing a paused track by re-trigger (via the pause button) remains immediate.

Reset any Paused Track(s) to Play
With the sequencer stopped, double-click the Pause button to un-pause any paused track(s) ready
for the next sequencer Play operation

Set Track Pause condition
With the sequencer stopped, zoom into a track - click the Pause button to set the track condition to
paused, or from paused to Play.




Track program changes

MIDI program change
In Track mode, you may have noticed that the Program LED is lit in Orange and the Select LED
next to it is lit in Green. Also, the numeric field is not showing the global tempo value anymore, as
it does in the PAGE mode.
We are using that area to edit and send MIDI program changes to the channel of the selected track.
First, select the MIDI channel you would like to send the program
change on as the track MIDI channel.
Next, dial in a program number, using the rotary encoder on the top right. Alternatively, you may
want to key in the number of the program you want to select. Once selected, press Program and you
should hear / see the program change occur.




       50                      Octopus Reference Manual CE v5.30                            50
