A couple of side notes are necessary here. First, consider that not all synthesizer manufacturers use
the same numbering scheme for their programs, i.e. some start counting at 1, some at 0.
However, the underlying values are always in the range 0-127.
The Octopus convention is to display values in the range 0-128, where
a value of 0 means that no program change message is sent.
Therefore, the program changes are numbered in the range 1-128.
Secondly, a program change message will be sent every time the Program key is pressed in TRACK
mode, regardless of all other circumstances.
However, if you keep the Program key pressed while turning the knob, the program change
messages will get sent as you increase or decrease the PC number via the main knob.
Furthermore, all program changes contained in the tracks of a page will be sent (once) as soon as
that page is enabled for play - either as part of a cluster, or by manual intervention.

MIDI bank changes
You can also issue bank change messages. This is done simply by pressing the Select button and
turning it Orange.
In that case the number displayed will correspond to the bank number, and the bank change
message will get sent as soon as you press the Select button again.

Bank change messages will be sent also when a page is activated for play, but not when you send
program change messages from Track mode.


Track attribute maps

Now that we have looked in some detail at the mutators while in TRACK mode, you may wonder
what is going on to the left of the matrix - in the selector column.

The selector column
You see that some of the LEDs are lit up, and some aren't. Each lit button represents something we
call an attribute map for the track.
There are attribute maps for the following attributes: VEL, PIT, LEN, STA, AMT, GRV, and MCC.

What is an attribute map?
Simply put, an attribute map is a view of a particular step attribute for the entire track.
Let's look at an example: the VEL map would be the view that shows you the velocity offset of all
steps of a track at once.
This is true with one exception - that is the DIR line. In the case of DIR we do not have a map per
se, but rather the capability to edit the direction configuration for the sequencer. The details are
explained in the chapter dealing with directions and we will disregard it
in this section.
For example: Press VEL and you will notice that keeping it pressed will make it flash Orange and
the mutator column will make CLR, RND and
ZOM available. Briefly - CLR and RND will affect the track VEL map and either clear it to default
value or pick a random value. Now the interesting one:

Showing attribute maps
With the VEL selector still pressed, press the ZOM mutator to get to the MAP mode. What you now
see is the VEL map of the track you are working on.
You can also enter MAP mode by double-clicking the attribute button (VEL in this example).




       51                     Octopus Reference Manual CE v5.30                           51
