Working with attribute maps

The matrix display is built up starting at row 0 with the pattern of the track under consideration.
Here you may toggle, select and skip steps as you would in PAGE mode, as already described in the
introductory section - also holding them and tweaking their parameters will work - but leave that for
a moment to avoid confusion.
If the sequencer is playing, you also see a Red chase-light in the row of the track currently being
worked on.

Reading attribute maps
You may think of the area made up by rows 1-9 as divided into 16 columns, one for each step
represented in row 0.
For each step, the column will display a bar corresponding to the value of the attribute whose map
we are seeing. Remember that this is the attribute value of the steps, before the steps are affected by
any sort of track offset.

Representation
For values that can be negative or positive (VEL, PIT, STA), a zero value is represented by a line of
LEDs on row 5. Positive values are above the line and negative values are below.
Now press any button in row 6 - as an example. You will see that the bar for the step in the column
of your press will jump to the position of the button you have pressed.

Reading the real values
The real value of the step attribute offsets can be read out easily by holding the respective step
pressed in row 0.
For this purpose, you may also want to (temporarily?) use the preview mode (toggle the EDIT LED
to flashing Green or flashing Orange), such as to not affect the toggle state of the steps you are
viewing.
The value is displayed in the numeric quadrant of the circle, and is always shown as a sum of the
track and step value for that particular attribute.
Also note that while the meaning of the large circle value is changing, the pitch circle is always
dedicated to showing the pitch. This is just a quick but very powerful way of entering data for the
steps of a particular track.
Values may also be entered using the keys of the circle fields, i.e. entering a velocity value for a
step is similar to entering a tempo value.
You will see the new value reflected in the matrix display.

Reading the pitch display
The way to read the display is the following: the Red dots will indicate the octave and the Green dot
will indicate the note in that octave. For example three Red dots starting at C and a Green dot at G
mean the pitch is G in octave 3. Exception: two Red dots starting at C and a Orange dot at D mean
that the pitch is D in octave 3.

Entering pitches
Entering pitches is done by pressing the appropriate note. In order to transpose octaves use the left
and right keys labelled "C".




       52                      Octopus Reference Manual CE v5.30                             52
