Finding your way around the maps
The selector column allows you to jump directly between the available track maps. The mutator
column allows you to use some functions on the map.
CLR will restore default values, RND will choose random values for each column, and RMX
allows you to call and actually observe what the RMX operation is doing to your track parameters.
ZOM, which is now lit Red, will take you back to the track mode without un-selecting VEL, and
pressing ZOM again from there will bring you again into the map mode.

Shifting maps
The POS knob in the Editor block is also assigned a function - turn it and you will see your attribute
map just shift around the track, without affecting the step toggle states or the other attribute maps,
but having certainly surprising effects on your sequence.

Switching tracks
You may fetch any track into the map view by simply ticking (to the left or right - it doesn't matter)
the mix encoder corresponding to the map you want to fetch into the display.


Track CC map resolution

Track CC maps have a specific property associated with them, and that is resolution.
Per default, Track CC messages are sent on each step, according to the respective track and step
MCC values. In addition, intermediate CC messages may be sent between CC steps. This
effectively increases resolution of the CC stream, resulting in smoother controller flows.
In MAP mode, with MCC as the selected attribute, the resolution for the current track may be
selected by using the chord button block.
The minimum (and default) value is 1, meaning that one Track CC message is sent per step.
A value of 5 for example, denotes that 5 messages will be sent for this step. The first one right on
the step, the other 4 distributed evenly across the interval of time until the next step is triggered. The
intermediate values automatically create a linear slope to the next value.

Map factors
Maps are useful in the sense that we can see and edit a particular step attribute for all steps at once.

Step attribute scaling
There is another advantage we get from maps - and that is the easy factoring or scaling of step
attribute effect on the play result.
Using a scaling factor for each map of a track, we can now determine to what degree a map is
applied to the play data.
In fact, the track attributes LEN and STA themselves are really scaling factors for the corresponding
attribute maps.

Map factor setting
In all cases, the middle setting of the scaling factor will play the steps unaffected, while tighter
settings (lower values) will reduce the effect of the played map values. Looser settings will amplify
the effect of a map on the played result.
The value range for the map factors is numerically between 1...17, with 9 being the neutral setting.
Note that due to the way the display is set up, the values for LEN and STA shown in the TRACK
mode are depicted as 0.....16, with 8 being the neutral value.




       53                       Octopus Reference Manual CE v5.30                              53
