Track direction editing

As we have seen in earlier sections, each Octopus track may be assigned its own running direction.
This is exciting, but neither new, nor spectacular.
What may catch your attention though, is that on the Octopus you can not only specify what
direction a track should play, but in most cases also edit that direction to your particular gusto.
Directions 1-5 are read-only, while directions 6-16 are user editable.
To see how all this works, let's take a quick step back and realize a couple of things. Then you will
see how the pieces fall into place.

A general view on directions
To begin, have a track run at the default forward direction (Direction 1). Let it run for a few cycles
in the forward direction, then stop.
Think about what you just saw: the forward direction is really "the sequence of chaser light
positions in each of 16 slices of time it takes to play all steps in a track". Makes sense? Realizing
this is the key to understanding how editing directions works.

Triggers and slices
Each of the 16 slices needed to play a track from end to end (no skips for now) specifies its own
chaser light position trigger. For the forward direction, in slice 1 we have a trigger for chaser light
position 1, in slice 2 a trigger for position 2, etc.
In simple terms, when a track is played, the chaser light will be moved according to the triggers
specified by the slices that make up that particular direction. For example, the reverse direction has
the trigger sequence [16, 15, 14... 1] assigned to its slices.

Full and empty slices
To take it one level further, a slice is not restricted to holding only one trigger, but may hold up to
nine triggers. These nine triggers will be played in sequence every time the respective slice is being
played. This implies that a slice may take as long as nine times to play completely, because it fires
up to nine triggers.
So what do we get from empty slices, i.e. where no trigger is specified? Well, every time Octopus
gets an empty slice, it will pick a trigger for you at random*, and play it normally.

Certainty_next
The sequence of slices is per default set to be a solid 1, 2, 3 ...16. But you can change that. Each
slice has an associated „certainty_next" parameter, which is expressed as a percentage.
A setting of 100% means that the next slice will be the one following naturally (i.e. slice 3 will be
followed by slice 4, etc.).
A setting of 0% will specify that the next slice will be the naturally previous one (i.e. slice 3 will be
followed by slice 2).
Any value in-between will produce the obvious: for example, a setting of 50% will mean that there
is a 50/50 chance by which the next or the previous slice will be called - and then its triggers
played.
Note that the certainty_next parameter applies to the switch between slices, but does not apply to
the trigger set and sequence inside a particular slice.
For example: Let's assume slice 4 has a certainty_next of 50% and a trigger set of 2, 5, and 8. Once
started, the slice will first fire up its triggers (2, 5, 8) and then decide which slice to call next - slice
3 (previous one) or slice 5 (next one).




       56                        Octopus Reference Manual CE v5.30                                56
