Playing direction maps
So now, how do you work with all of this? The answer is "Direction Maps". From Track Mode (of
any track), select for that track the direction you would like to program.
Make sure to choose a direction between 6 and 16, since directions 1-5 are read-only and cannot be
modified.
After choosing the direction, double-click on the DIR attribute button to enter the direction map. In
this view, you will see in row 0 a Orange light, reminding you of the index of the position you are
just about to edit.
Press some of the keys in row 0 and you will see a Green flashing light following your presses - the
Green flashing light is showing you the index of the slice that you are just editing. When the
flashing Green and the Orange light overlap, you will get a flashing Orange light.

Editing trigger sets
The area above row 0 (i.e. rows 1-9), will show none, one, or more Red lights, which specify the
triggers contained in the selected slice.
You may select triggers at will by simply toggling them in the Matrix, but there can be only one per
row: the trigger sequence is naturally given by the rows you select them in. Therefore, a row will
only hold one trigger.
Rows holding no trigger will simply be ignored at runtime. But remember, if all rows are empty,
you will get a random* trigger to play in that slice before the next slice is called.

Editing Certainty_next
While editing, you may jump between trigger sets using the key of row 0 as you like. Last thing to
mention is the certainty_next probability.
This is simply the number shown in the numeric field of the circle, in the top left quadrant. The
number is edited as expected, using the top right rotary encoder, in addition to the buttons in the
numeric quadrant.
Here, some key combinations may be of interest: double clicking 5 will produce a 50, clicking
(simple) 100 will produce 100, and double clicking 100 will produce a 0.
For the rest, it is left as an exercise to the reader to look at how the five default directions are
programmed, in order to get the final clarification or confirmation on having understood how the
Octopus direction model works.
Please also refer to the dedicated tutorial in the back section of this manual or available as a
separate document on our web site.

Remarks
The direction map is no different to the other maps we have seen so far: press ESC at any time to
return to the page mode, but be aware that any change you make to the direction will be permanent,
like any other change on the Octopus. However, unlike with regular MIDI data, there is no "PLAY"
capability for the directions. You may however use CLR to restore the forward direction in slots 6-
16. In fact, remember that directions 1-5 are read-only and not editable.
Finally, when you need an inspiration boost, go into a direction map
and start using RND. That one may get you going.




       57                      Octopus Reference Manual CE v5.30                           57
