The EFF mechanism

The modulation is always happening "top-down", i.e. upper tracks may modulate lower tracks, but
not vice-versa.
Here "upper" and "lower" refers to the respective track index. For example, track 9 may modulate
all other tracks but track 0 cannot modulate any other track.

Feeders, Listeners and Listening Feeders
Modulator tracks are called "feeders" and modulated tracks "listeners", for a better distinction of
terms.
Because the effect of the feeder tracks is additive down the track indexes, you may picture the
feeder tracks as feeding the effector and listener tracks listening to whatever is in the effector at
their particular index slot.
A track may also be both a listeners and a feeder, which we call a listening feeder. This means that
if that track itself is playing notes, then the attributes of those notes are modulated, while the
resulting values will modulate the corresponding listeners below it.

Effector dry-run
In the example below, Track 9 is feeding its Step offsets for VEL, PIT and LEN into the effector.
This means that all listeners in the page may be modulated by those offsets. In this example we
have set tracks 8, 4 and 0 as listeners, and therefore to be modulated by track 9's offsets.
Assuming that Track 9 is currently at a Step whose PIT offset is +3, and assuming no other feeders
exist, the notes played in the tracks 8, 4, and 0 will be played 3 semitones higher than defined in
those tracks for the current position.
But: track 6 is also a feeder, and modulates all listeners below it,
i.e. Tracks 4 and 0. Assuming that the current Step in track 6 has a PIT offset of -1, listener tracks
below will see a total PIT modulation effect of +3 -1 = +2.
Similarly, Tracks 3 and 2 are set as further feeders, which means that the last listener, Track 0, is
being modulated by four feeders: Tracks 9, 6, 3, and 2.
Assuming Tracks 3 and 2 each have a Step PIT offset of -2, this means
that the net PIT offset for row 0 is: +3 -1 -2 -2 = -2.

Remarks
The values fed into the effector are really the deltas between the actual step offset for a given
attribute and the default value of that attribute. In the above example the default step offset was
always 0.
The first remark here is that the offsets fed into the effector may obviously be both positive and
negative.
The second remark to make is that the attribute values fed into the effector by both feeders and
listening feeders will be influenced by the factor set for that particular track.
When using step events to scale both the feeder track and the listener track, the feeder offsets are
only applied to the listener after the listener has itself been scaled.

Using EFF with events
The effector may be used in conjunction with using events to modulate the track attribute map
factors.
We will not elaborate further on the possible results, and leave it as an exercise to the reader, but
this does open quite new ways of cross modulation among the page tracks.




       60                      Octopus Reference Manual CE v5.30                              60
