Playing the Effector

Feeders
On to the operation of the Effector. Just as a reminder, the Effector is a track specific attribute and
as such it must be toggled either in TRACK mode, or from PAGE mode by grabbing the track and
pressing the TGL button in the MUT column.
Setting a track to be a feeder is done by pressing its EFF mutator and toggling its EFF state to
Green.
It is important to note that a Feeder track need not contain any active Steps, i.e. need not play any
notes in order to act as a modulator for other tracks.

Listeners
In order to set a track to be a listener, click its EFF mutator to toggle it Red. Pressing a Red EFF
button will toggle it Orange, making the track a listening feeder.

Listening feeders
A listening feeder gets modulated first and then amplifies the incoming modulation with its own
effector feed.
Pressing the EFF button will toggle it off, with the track not participating in Effector modulation.

Playing
For the Effector to work, it is merely the offsets of its Steps that count, and it is completely
irrelevant whether those steps are generating MIDI notes or not.
However, if an effector feeder does contain active steps, these will be played regularly, as they
would independent of the effector.

Muting
If a feeder track is muted, it will not have any effect on listener tracks. Toggling feeder tracks is a
quick way to introduce changes to a track and then to go back to the original sound.

The Effector at work
Designate a feeder track. Set step 1 in the feeder track and pitch it up or down.
Now select a track with an index smaller than the effector feeder (this is essential) and build a
pattern into it involving lots (if not all) steps.
Make sure that step 1 is set as part of the pattern and play the pattern.
Now make this track listen to the effector by toggling its EFF mutator to Red by double clicking on
the EFF button.
You should now hear that the step in column 1 of the listening track is now played differently, with
the PIT offset from the Feeder track applied to it.
The popular thing to do now is to start changing the track lengths for feeder and listener to get long-
running modulation results.
Note: The Feeder steps will only pass a MCC value if the Feeder Track is set to an MCC (the step
MCC is passed - not the track MCC), therefore, to avoid unexpected effects, set the Feeder track to
a different MCH from the listener(s). The process is only additive as the MCC attribute cannot be
set to a negative offset.
If a Feeder step LEN attribute is set to legato then the listener track(s) will output their step LEN
attribute at the minimum step length (not legato).




       61                       Octopus Reference Manual CE v5.30                              61
