CPY
Page can be copied to the copy buffer. The copy operation will include the chain configuration local
to the page at the time of copy.

PST
Copy buffer will be pasted into the present page position.

Page POSITION in GRID
Another function available is jumping to another page of the grid. As you press the PAGE key you
will notice a Orange LED flash in the Matrix. This indicates the position of the current page in the
grid.

Switching pages
Holding PAGE pressed and pressing a matrix key other than the one flashing and in any row other
than row 0 will take you directly to the page associated with that key in the grid.
This is especially useful when you are working on musical structures
spanning several pages.
Holding PAGE pressed, the current matrix Page will flash Orange, when pressing a new matrix
Page the newly selected page will flash Orange and the previous Page will be Green (as it is still the
'current' page playing) - now, whilst still holding the Page button press TGL and (at the end of the
Track the newly selected Page will turn Green and the previously selected Page will turn Red.



Play mode

The PLAY mode provides the capability to try new things in a page, in a non-destructive manner.
Activating the PLAY mode is equivalent to taking a snapshot of the currently playing page in a
bank for later recall, in case the results of your editing do not live up to your expectations. Notably,
the play mode snapshots include track mute patterns of the respective pages.
Also note that engaging the PLAY mode may be done from both page mode and from grid mode.

Engaging play mode
To activate the PLAY mode press the Green PLAY button in the MODE block and you should see
it flash Orange. Also you will notice that the Program button will be lit Red.
Now make all the changes and editing that you need to make to your page until you reach a point of
satisfaction, or possibly slight regret.
Use EDIT state PREFORM (flashing Green)

Make changes permanent
To keep the page, simply press Program to make the changes permanent.

Discard changes
To discard the changes, press PLAY again, exiting the PLAY mode and recalling the state of the
page from just before you started.
Note that upon stopping the sequencer you will also lose any changes made during PLAY mode.




       66                       Octopus Reference Manual CE v5.30                             66
