On-the-Measure Mode

On the Measure mode allows certain actions that previously could only be effected instantaneously
to now be programmed to occur 'on-the-measure'.
A measure is 16 steps at x1 speed, or if a page has a Page Length of less than 16 then the Length of
Measure will be equal to the Page Length.

In Page View with the Track Mode led Green, click the Track Mode button and the led will change
to Orange indicating that On-the-Measure mode is engaged.


On-The-Measure Track Mute Toggle
To mute/unmute a track press its 'Mute' button in the usual way - the action will take effect at the
beginning of the next measure.
The Track Mute led will flash red indicating that the track will toggle 'on-the-measure'. The
operation can be cancelled at any time before the measure occurs.
The above operation applies to individual track mutes and to mute patterns using the Main MUT
button.

On-The-Measure Track Solo Toggle
To solo a track double-click its Mute button - the action will take effect at the beginning of the next
measure.
The Track Mute led will flash green indicating that the track will Solo toggle 'on-the-measure'. The
operation can be cancelled at any time before the measure occurs.
To turn off track solo click the Mute button of the track or the main Mut button.

The track can also be Solo'd in the 'legacy' manner by clicking the Solo button when in either Track
Zoom, or when the track is selected using the Sel button


On-The-Measure Note-Stream Record
Arm a Track for Record then with the sequencer playing, click the transport Record button - the led
will shine red indicating that the sequencer will commence recording at the start of the next
measure. Once recording commences the record led will (as usual) flash red.
If the sequencer is currently recording then click the transport Record button to stop recording at the
end of the current measure (the record led will again shine red until the record operation ends).


Note: On-the-Measure mode is relevant to Page Banks - this allows the Page On-the-Measure
condition to be saved to memory.




       67                      Octopus Reference Manual CE v5.30                             67
