EDIT state

Octopus provides a quick way of previewing steps, in the sense that you can immediately hear what
they contain, and how they would play under the chase-light.
This is particularly interesting of course when you are tweaking something to sound just right.

By default, in PAGE mode the EDIT LED button lights steady Green. Click on it once to toggle it
to flashing Orange.

When the EDIT LED is lit steady Green, everything behaves as you know it: the step buttons toggle
the step states. When turned to flashing Orange you are in the EDIT state.
To return to the default state (steady Green), press the EDIT button
twice (again - twice, and not double-click!).




EDIT PREVIEW state - Editing Steps (Flashing Orange - Edit Realtime)

First make sure the EDIT LED is flashing Orange.
Now press some buttons in the matrix. You will notice that no steps will be set (as we have done it
before), but that the MIDI data of the steps is played out of the MIDI port as it is.
Grab a step and now tweak its attributes, for example pitch, to take the most obvious one: you will
hear that with every click of the encoder the steps is re-triggered and played such that you can hear
the change in real time.
The step velocity is shown and editable in the numeric quadrant of the outer circle, the pitch in the
inner circle.

In this mode the step length may also be adjusted in the matrix, by holding the step to be adjusted
and pressing another button at a distance to denote the length in 1/16th intervals or alternatively by
holding the step to be adjusted and clicking a button in the same column(above or below) to set the
held step to a LEN of 192/192.

Editing Tracks
Pressing the track selectors in preview mode will produce a result similar to the steps buttons.
The note played will basically reveal the tracks velocity and pitch settings, producing a result
equivalent to having a non-modified step playing in that track.




       68                      Octopus Reference Manual CE v5.30                            68
