EDIT PERFORM state (Flashing Green - Berlin)

Use this mode for tweaking Steps.

An alternative and quite rewarding mode of working with a step sequence (depending on your style
and preference) is that of tweaking a set sequence of steps in realtime, while the sequence keeps
playing.
You can also do this to some degree without a special mode, but EDIT PERFORM takes this to
perfection.

EDIT PERFORM is actually similar to the EDIT state, with the exception that no MIDI data is
transmitted when you operate on the matrix. This is particularly interesting for the Berlin School
type of performances.

By default, in PAGE mode the EDIT LED button lights Green. Click on it once to toggle it to
flashing Orange, and once more to make it flash Green.

Again, when the EDIT LED lights steady Green, everything behaves as you know it: the step
buttons toggle the step states. When EDIT flashes Orange you are in EDIT mode, and when EDIT
flashes Green you are in EDIT PERFORM mode.

In this mode the step length may also be adjusted in the matrix, by holding the step to be adjusted
and pressing another button at a distance to denote the length in 1/16th intervals or alternatively by
holding the step to be adjusted and clicking a button in the same column(above or below) to set the
held step to a LEN of 192/192.




Step Shift in EDIT PERFORM state

Holding a step in the matrix and turning the DIR rotary will either advance all steps to the right of
the held step one complete step, or will move all steps to the right on the held step one complete
step closer to the held step (provided the first step to the right of the held step is toggled off and not
a Skip Step or Step Event).
Any steps that are advanced beyond Step 16 will be lost unless and 'over-run track' is configured.
Note: Step Shift is also applied to Step Events. The position of a hyper-step does not change
(adjacent steps when shifted will 'hop over' a hyperstep).

'Over-run Track' considerations:
An Over-run Track is always lower in the matrix.
If a Track has an AMT attribute value of '100' then any steps that are advanced beyond Step 16 will
'over-run' to the next track lower in the matrix.
Hence, if all tracks are set to value '100' then the 'overrun' will flow through all tracks in the matrix.
To avoid any conflicts the above features are only available if there is no Step or Track Selection
active.




       69                       Octopus Reference Manual CE v5.30                               69
