Musical scales

Each page can be associated with a particular musical scale. Once that association is done and a
scale is active, all page notes are forced to play in the chosen scale.

Force to scale
Force to scale for a page is enabled by going to PAGE mode and simply pressing the Green lit
SCALE SEL button. Coming from the default state, you will see its LED turn Red and all scale
notes light up, with the exception of upper C.
Conversely, force to scale is disabled by pressing the Red SCALE SEL button, which indicates that
force to scale is engaged.
So, in general, the Red LED of SCALE SEL is indicating that the page pitches are forced into the
scale, a Green LED indicates that the page is playing the pitches as they are.
The lower C LED is also lit Orange. What you see here is that all notes are selected in the scale, and
that C is the base tone of this scale. Let's now modify the scale to get more interesting effects:

Composing scales
While having force to scale active as described above, press the Select button (in the outer circle,
button XIV) and it should flash Orange, while the Chr. scale LED (XX) is lit Orange.
This picture is telling us that the chromatic C scale is currently active, but that we may select any
notes in our current scale.
The Select button you have just pressed is used to let you select the notes that you would like to add
to your scale. Now press any of the note keys in the scale circle to toggle the corresponding notes
into and out of the scale, putting together any scale you like.
Once you are done selecting the scale notes, you may press SCALE MOD again, and now you can
modify (again) the base pitch of the scale you have just selected.
Another way to select a scale is to press any of the scale buttons in the outer circle, to get the scale
structure associated with their label, always on the base tone indicated by the Orange LED.

Changing the scale base
In order to change the base tone, press the SCALE MOD button to enter the scale modulation mode.
Here you may select any of the current scales tones as the new scale base.
As you change the scale base you will see the scale signature carry over to the new base as well.

Scale cadence mode
Another way of operating the Scale data is to combine it with the CAD functionality. What this
means is that any changes done to the scale will translate into immediate mappings onto the track
pitches in the page at hand.
To activate the SCALE CAD, please activate force-to-scale if not already active, and then press
CAD (so it flashes Red indicating operation).
In order to make the effect clearly visible (on top of audible) you may also want to select the MIX
mode for the track pitches (double click on the ATR key in the MIX TARGET field, then select
PIT).
Now modify the scale as described and you should see the changes to the track pitches as they
materialize in the matrix.

Locking the page scale
You may want to have your page notes forced to the selected scale, but not see the details behind
that and also prevent any unintended changes to the scale, essentially locking it.




       71                      Octopus Reference Manual CE v5.30                             71
