In that case, while in SCALE mode, press ESC to leave the page forced to the scale, but to exit the
SCALE mode. You will notice that the SCALE SEL LED will flash Orange, indicating that the
page is forced to scale. To go back into the scale edit mode, simply press the Orange flashing
SCALE SEL LED.

The grid scale
The GRID may be assigned a scale, in the same manner that a scale is assigned to a page, except the
GRID scale will act globally.
To operate the GRID scale, switch first to GRID mode. Use the SCALE SEL button and proceed as
already described in the section describing the PAGE Scale operation.

Exempting pages from the grid scale
Note that by definition, the GRID scale is overruled by any other scales active in particular pages.
Therefore, an easy way to exempt a page from the grid scale is to force that page to a chromatic
scale. This may be particularly useful in the case of percussive material for example.


Force to Scale - Quick Guide

Scale SEL Lit Green - No Force to Scale.
Scale SEL Lit Red (or flashing Orange) - Force to Scale Active.

Press Scale SEL to activate Force to Scale, LED turns Red then either select scale with Outer Circle
button (Maj, Min etc) or press Select (XIV) button and choose notes.

The Scale base note is shown in Orange, to change the base note press Scale MOD button then
choose a new base note - press Select (XIV) button again to go back to choosing scale notes.

Pressing Scale CAD will change Track default notes to the defined scale (not a good idea as this
will change to default note octave also).

Pressing ESC will leave Force to Scale active and Scale SEL LED will flash Orange (notes of scale
will no longer show).




The Mixer block

Viewing the MIX map
Double click the ATR button. This brings you to the MIX TARGET
assignment, where a parameter can be assigned to the MIX encoder group.
The Mix Target LEDs light all up, indicating the selected target in flashing Orange. Also, the matrix
is showing in every row the value respective to the corresponding track for the chosen attribute.
This type of display is called a MIX map, showing the behaviour of the tracks with respect to a
particular attribute, which can be adjusted using the MIX encoder block.
As a matter of fact, clicking on any of the MIX target buttons will open a MIX map view, with the
respective values showing, and ready to edit. We will describe this in the next sections in more
detail.




       72                      Octopus Reference Manual CE v5.30                            72
