Mix attribute quick assign
A very quick way to assign an attribute to the MIXER BLOCK is to select the attribute (i.e. to
select GRV, press and hold the selector of row 2), while pressing the MIX button. Or vice versa -
hold the MIX button pressed and press the track selector corresponding to the wanted attribute.
By pressing the MIX button you will notice that the selected attribute has been changed - the
current selected mix attribute is flashing Orange in the selector column.

Using the MIX block to rotate the Step Skip condition
By selecting the POS attribute (as described above) all Steps of the Tracks may be rotated using the
Mix knobs. With the MIX button held and the POS led flashing orange, click the POS button again
and the led will change to Shine Red - this indicates that the Mix knobs will now rotate only the
Skip condition of the Tracks (and the position of the actual Steps will not rotate).
Note: When saving the Page the MIX block is stored as the POS attribute not as Skips 'rotate'.


Working with Mix maps

While viewing MIX maps, you can work with a particular track attribute value directly, for all
tracks at once. You may tweak the value of any one track, or apply some functions to all tracks in
the page.

Clear
Clear the MIX map using the CLR button - this will reset the MIX map to default values for each
track in the page, all at once.


Randomize
You may randomize the displayed values using the RND button. This will assign random values to
all tracks at once - for the selected attribute of course.

Align
Using the ALN function you may re-order the tracks in the page, sorting them in the page by the
values of the selected MIX MAP attribute. The sorting will be done such that the track with the
highest value will be placed on the top row. Try it out!

Copy / Paste
Finally, if you have composed a page whose MIX map you would like to replicate, you may use the
CPY / PST functionality to replicate that attribute assignment across the tracks.
For example, assuming you have a page whose pitch structure creates a certain mood or harmony;
you can apply the same mood to an entirely unrelated page or pattern, by simply copying the PIT
map from one page to the other.



Mix map targets

Going back to editing, there are three classes of targets: attributes (ATR), preset MIDI CC's (any of
VOL, PAN, MOD, EXP), and MIDI Control Maps (MAP 0-5). Some explaining is due here.




       73                      Octopus Reference Manual CE v5.30                           73
