Attributes
If the ATR type is selected by a double click, the SEL buttons will light up Green, indicating that
any of them may be selected. The already selected attribute will flash Orange.
The matrix will show the value relevant for the respective rows.
All rotary knobs act upon the same attribute on their respective track. For example if PIT (pitch) is
selected, every rotary will change the pitch of its assigned row.

Preset MIDI CC's
The MIDI CC's behave the same as the ATR targets. The CC's used are: VOL (7), PAN (10), MOD
(1), EXP (11).

MIDI Control Maps
Using a MIDI Controller Map, any MIX knob can be assigned an individual CC on a chosen MIDI
channel.
As an example, double click on MAP 0 to select MIDI Controller Map 0. You will notice that the
AMT button will flash Orange indicated that AMT is selected. The matrix shows the per-track
AMT values, which is really the CC amount set on each of the tracks.
Press the MCC button. Here the Matrix shows the actual Midi Continuous Controller assigned to
each of the tracks.
You can modify the CC for every individual track using the MIX knobs. Remember that four Green
LEDs in positions 13, 14, 15, and 16 indicate that no CC has been assigned.
Now press the MCH button. This view allows you to assign the MIDI channel on which the CC
signal is sent.
Note that this is not the MIDI channel of the Track - the track's MIDI channel is an entirely
independent parameter.
Finally, the settings that you have just made are stored as a MIDI Controller Map. There is a total of
6 MIDI Controller Maps, and they are global. This is useful because you can have MIDI map
operate beyond the context of a page, as they fulfil a global function.

Playing MIDI Controller Maps
MIDI Controller Maps may be edited and operated directly from both the GRID and the PAGE
level.
Select one of the MIDI Controller Maps, 0-5. You will see that the LED for the corresponding map
is lit Orange to show that it is currently active.

Timeout
The MIXER block may be used at any time during PAGE mode operation. In order to make the
effects visible, once you operate any of the MIX encoders in PAGE mode you will see its value
displayed briefly in the corresponding matrix row.
The value will disappear shortly after you have performed the last click, to clear the view for the
regular contents of the track.

Midi Control Map Values
The AMT values are effectively the 'start point', turning the encoder will send out the value + or -
the Map AMT 'start-point' value.

Note: Once a Midi Control Map has been changed during a performance the only way to reset to
the stored map values is via a 'hard reset'.




       74                      Octopus Reference Manual CE v5.30                            74
