For Example: Pressing a page button that is Red (page is not playing), will turn that page on.
Pressing the button of a playing page (Green) will turn that page off.
There are two page switch modes, "on the beat" and "immediate". To toggle between them simply
press the Tempo button. "On the beat" is denoted by a Red master clock indicator, "immediate" by a
Green one.


Grid-Track mode

The GRID-TRACK mode may be imagined as a sub-mode of the GRID Mode. The GRID-TRACK
mode provides most of the GRID functionality described above, al lowing a different vie w on your
MIDI data.
Here, matrix buttons represent tracks (as opposed to pages) and have the functionality of track
selectors, as described for the PAGE Mode.
We may refer to them as virtual track selectors.

Entering the Grid-Track mode
To enter the GRID-TRACK mode, enter the GRID mode first (by pressing GRID) and then press
the Green-lit TRACK button.
The TRACK button will flash Orange, and the GRID button will stay lit in Orange. This indicates
that you are in the GRID-TRACK mode.

Virtual track selectors
The Matrix will slightly change its contents and some explanation is
necessary to what it now conveys.
For each page playing in the GRID, you will see a lit bar of 10 LEDs, from position 4 to position
13, leaving three blank columns of buttons on each side.
Each lit button acts as virtual track selectors and the LEDs indicate the toggle state of the
corresponding track.

Hands-on
As an example, let's assume there is only one page playing in the GRID in bank 1 of the grid and no
tracks are muted in that page. You should see a bar of 10 Green LEDs in row 1, positioned in the
centre of the row (3 unlit LED's to each side of the 10-LED bar).

Working with tracks
Moving from here is easy: press and hold any of the virtual track selectors and you will see that two
mutator functions become available: TGL and SOL.
Also, the EDIT block indicator flashes Orange, as you may use the encoders to modify the track
selected via the virtual selectors.
When exactly one track is selected in GRID-TRACK mode, the pitch of that track becomes visible
and editable in the inner circle, just as we have seen it in PAGE mode.

Quick track toggle
Sometimes all you want to do in GRID-TRACK mode is to toggle tracks on the fly. There is a quick
way to do that by holding any button that belongs to columns 1-3 or 14-16 while pressing a virtual
track selector. The virtual track selector now directly toggles the mute status of the respective track.

Zooming into tracks
You may do much lower-level editing of tracks, simply by double- clicking a virtual selector to
enter TRACK mode for that track, i.e. zooming into that track.



       80                      Octopus Reference Manual CE v5.30                             80
