Page Clusters

Building clusters
In order to play two or more pages consecutively they have to be situated next to each other in the
GRID. You can achieve this easily by using CPY / PST / CLR mutator functions in order to create
what we shall call page clusters.
A page cluster is therefore a group of two or more adjacent pages surrounded by either empty pages
or grid margins.

Cluster activation
Create a page cluster consisting of three pages in a row of your choice. Once the cluster is built,
make sure the sequencer is playing and toggle one of the pages in the cluster to Green (i.e. make it
play).
The page will keep on playing.
Activate cluster play for the row in which the cluster exists by pressing the SEL button of that row
once - toggling it from Red to Green.
When Green, you will notice that once the currently playing page is finished playing the next page
in the cluster starts to play and so forth.

Cluster Page Hold
With an active Page Cluster any page can be made a 'hold page', cluster play will not advance
beyond the 'hold page' until the 'hold' is turned off - see Page Repeats (STA). When a Cluster Hold
Page is playing it will be shown in the Grid as flashing Green.

Bank mute toggles
In GRID mode, the buttons in the MUT column act as bank mute toggles. Pages in muted banks
will continue playing in sync with all active ones, but their output will not be sent out to MIDI. This
provides more immediate and intuitive handling of material in live situations.


Track-Across-Cluster operations for Mute and Solo

This mode is used to toggle a Mute or Solo condition across all pages of the current cluster. In
Track-Across-Cluster Mode both the individual Track Mute/Solo buttons and the main MUT button
influence all pages within that cluster.

       In Grid mode the Cluster select button now has three states:-
              Cluster Mode Off - led Red (v5.00 & earlier)
              Cluster Mode On & Track-Across-Cluster Off - led Green (v5.00 & earlier)
              Cluster Mode On & Track-Across-Cluster On - led Flashing Orange

In Grid mode to activate Track-Across-Cluster double-click the Cluster select button - the led will
flash orange indicating that the banks' Pages are operating in Cluster mode and that Track-Across-
Cluster is also in operation.

A single click will turn off cluster operation, or a double click will switch back to Cluster mode On
(led Green) and Track-Across-Cluster Off.

Please note that when Track-Across-Cluster mode is active, any changes to Mute (or Solo) 'pattern'
on the current page will arbitrarily apply the current mute pattern to all other pages in the cluster.




       82                      Octopus Reference Manual CE v5.30                            82
