Using Track-Across-Cluster with On-The-Measure
Both Track-Across-Cluster and On-The-Measure may be used at the same time....
When Track-Across-Cluster is engaged in Page View the Track Mode led will flash Orange if
On-the-Measure mode is also engaged. Additionally, the Track Mute leds will Shine Red (armed for
mute/unmute) or Shine Green (armed for Solo) when both modes are active.


Page play parameters

Page repeats (STA)
Page clustering can become even more fun, as you can set the number of repetitions individually for
each page. For example, page A can play 4 times, page B 2 times and page C 1 time. The number of
repetitions can be any value between 0 and 16, where 1 is the default value.
In order to set the repetition value for a page, simply keep it pressed and select the number of
repetitions in row 0 - for any number between 1 and 16. You may press on a page's key and you
will see the repetitions value along with the currently left number of repetitions for play (double-
click to set value 0). Another way of modifying a page's number of repeats is to hold the page in the
grid, while turning the STA knob in the edit block.
Note: Page STA value of 0 is a special value that signifies a Cluster Hold Page, i.e. Cluster Page
Play will not advance to the next Page until the 'held' page STA is changed to a value other than 0.

Page length (LEN)
When pages play, they are set per default to play 16 step positions, after which they play another 16
steps and so on. These rather natural sixteen 16th positions make up what we call the length of the
page, i.e. how many positions until the track "wraps around".
However this value may be changed to a number higher or lower than the natural 16. For example,
assuming length 12 for a modified page playing along with a reference page with length 16, the
modified page will play its first 12 positions, after which it will play once more its first 4 positions.
After that it will start over from position 1 and so on.
Let's see briefly how this may be used: As we have seen, clustering pages is a way to create
structures spanning more than one page. If you have worked with pages that contain tracks of
different lengths and had these be part of clusters, you may have wondered what determines the
moment of switching from one page to the next.
To set the page length of a page, make sure you are in GRID mode, and from there press and hold
the button of the page whose length you want to read or modify. When pressing the page button,
notice that the SEL LED in row 0 will be lit and can be pressed to change colours between Red and
Green. Make sure to set it to Green. The default is a Red LED in the first position of row zero. This
indicates that the page is playing a full 16-step cycle. In order to change that, use the row zero
buttons and click / double-click them to achieve the desired result. Note that the maximum length of
a page can be set up to be 8 cycles, or 128 step lengths(at x1 speed).

Page trigger behaviour
Page lengths below 16 steps will cause the page to re-trigger every time a start is invoked. This is
useful when you create chopped-up beats and the like. If the page length is 16 or greater, the page
will continue playing on new starts and will not re-trigger. Hence, for Page STA with Page LEN
values below 16 then the Page STA acts as a page repeat but when used with a Page LEN of 16 or
more then effectively Page STA acts as a Page LEN multiplier.
A Page LEN of less than 16 will influence a Page whether or not it is activated for cluster play.




       83                      Octopus Reference Manual CE v5.30                              83
