Page transposition (PIT)
When a page is selected in the grid, you may notice that the pitch circle lights up. It indicates the
page's pitch offset and lets you modify it, in order to transpose the entire page content in one place.
Alternatively you may use the PIT encoder to adjust it as well.
To transpose the page by one full octave respectively, you may use the High C and Low C keys in
the circle.

Page velocity factor (VEL)
Similar to the factors we see in conjunction with the track attribute maps, there is a page velocity
factor that may be adjusted from the grid mode. The page velocity factor is a master determinant of
the velocity produced by note content in a particular page. Assuming the patch on your sound
source is velocity sensitive, you should be able to easily create fade-ins and fade-outs using this
functionality.
Select a page in the grid, and while selected, turn the VEL encoder. The row 1 will display the
factor value.


Page follow

At any time during play in GRID mode you may zoom into any page you would like by the
methods described already.
If the page is part of a cluster and some page in the cluster other than the zoomed one is playing,
you may want to see the position of the chase-light in the cluster.
Press the Green Follow key to enable the follow page function, turning it Red. You will notice that
the matrix display will always switch to the page that is currently playing, essentially
following the chase-light as it moves forward through the pages of the current bank.
This is particularly useful when you are working on structures longer than one page. Pressing the
Follow button again will freeze the view on the page currently showing.

An easy way to remember the colour coding could be:
Red: stick to the Red chase-light, Green: stick to the Green steps.


Page sets

When you have a certain number of pages in the GRID, which you are tweaking and playing in
various combinations, you will eventually find combinations that you would like to recall quickly.

Concurrent page activation
Octopus can store the pointers of all active pages at a given time in what we term a Page Set.
Activating or switching between Page Sets can then be done by the press of a button at playtime.
The operation is equivalent to and a shortcut to toggling a set of pages on - with all the rules that
apply: only one page per bank will play, banks determine cluster behaviour, page length is
determined in the pages.

Working with Page Sets
Simply activate in the matrix the set of pages that you would like to store for recall.
Once they are all playing, press and hold the Green SEL button, while you press any of the 16
buttons in row 0. The buttons in row zero represent memory slots for storing your page sets.




       84                      Octopus Reference Manual CE v5.30                              84
