You will notice that once you have stored a set, into a slot, its corresponding LED turns Green -
indicating that the set of that slot is now
playing in the grid.
Now press the button of an empty slot - you will see that all pages stop playing, the slot LED lights
Orange (it is empty), and the previously saved slot is lit Red - because it is not playing.
Pressing the Red slot button will recall the page combination you had defined before for this
particular slot.

Deleting a Page Set
With that Page Set selected toggle all pages to Red(off) and the selected Page Set LED will then
flash Orange. Now hold SEL and click the selected PAGE Set button and the selected Page Set
LED will flash Green (empty).


Page Set as Midi Controller
When in Grid View the row zero grid selection Page Sets are now able to send MIDI notes on-the-
measure, to control a drum machine or another device that is responsive to MIDI notes.
In Grid View, to select Midi Control double click the Row 0 'MCH' button and the led will flash
Red.
Press and hold the MCH button and use the MCH encoder to set the Midi channel for the note-out,
which should be set to match the drum machine MIDI event-IN channel (the MCH is global for all
Scenes).
Select a step in row 0, it will flash orange - now whilst holding the MCH button, use the PIT
encoder to set the note out value which will be shown in the note circle.
When in Drum Control View the MCH led will flash orange if the selected step (Midi Control) has
a note-out stored, or will flash red if the step (Midi Control) is empty.




Grid Musical Scale

The grid scale
The GRID may be assigned a scale, in the same manner that a scale is assigned to a page, except the
GRID scale will act globally.
To operate the GRID scale, switch first to GRID mode. Use the SCALE SEL button and proceed as
already described in the section describing the PAGE Scale operation.

Exempting pages from the grid scale
Note that by definition, the GRID scale is overruled by any other scales active in particular pages.
Therefore, an easy way to exempt a page from the grid scale is to force that page to a chromatic
scale. This may be particularly useful in the case of percussive material for example.




       85                      Octopus Reference Manual CE v5.30                            85
