Force to Scale - Quick Guide

Scale SEL Lit Green - No Force to Scale.
Scale SEL Lit Red (or flashing Orange) - Force to Scale Active.

Press Scale SEL to activate Force to Scale, LED turns Red then either select scale with Outer Circle
button (Maj, Min etc) or press Select (XIV) button and choose notes.

The Scale base note is shown in Orange, to change the base note press Scale MOD button then
choose a new base note - press Select (XIV) button again to go back to choosing scale notes.

Pressing Scale CAD will change Track default notes to the defined scale (take care, as this will
change to default note octave also).

Pressing ESC will leave Force to Scale active and Scale SEL LED will flash Orange (notes of scale
will no longer show).


Utility functions

Chase-light align
There are many reasons why your chase-light in a page may become misaligned in a visual sense.
Sometimes that's what you want, but sometimes not.
In order to line up all tracks in a page, simply press the ALN button. This will re-synchronize all
tracks to the Octopus global master-clock, as explained in the section on the GRID mode.
As a side comment, the chase-light will also be realigned whenever you Stop and then play a
sequence. Pause and Resume (pressing pause again) will not realign the chase-light

Interface locking
Sometimes you may want to hide the Octopus from preying eyes or even un-authorized button
pressers.
At any time, regardless of the playing status of the machine, you can engage the interface lock by
holding GRID and pressing ESC at the same time.
The result will be that only the tempo LED will remain lit and flash at the rate of the internal clock.
All other LEDs will be turned of, and seemingly all keys will be disabled. The only operating knob
will be the tempo knob.
In order to unlock the machine you may double click on the GRID mode button to return to normal
operation in GRID mode.

Bypassing memory reload
If you hold the CLR button down while powering up the machine, Octopus will not load the
FLASH memory contents, but will simply start with the factory defaults.
The default Track PIT values for Tracks 9 - 0 are as follows:
C3, D3, E3, G3, A3, C5, D5, E5, G5, and A5

 Where are you from?
If you press the PAGE key you will notice a Orange LED flash in the Matrix. This indicates the
position of the current page in the grid.




       86                      Octopus Reference Manual CE v5.30                             86
