Record rehearsing
Sometimes you may just want the re-channel capability described above but without the actual
recording being done. This is useful when you want to play along an instrument of a given track but
do not want to record straight away.

To enter record rehearsing, make sure all record activity is of (no track SEL flashing Red, the REC
key is not flashing Red). Now hold a track SEL button pressed and click on the REC button.
The Track SEL LED will flash Red, indicating rehearse mode. Pressing the REC key again will
finally enable recording for the armed track.

Multitrack recording
In order to record on more than one channel at a time, you may make a multi-track selection and
press the REC, just as above.
However, note that in multitrack recording the MIDI source to be recorded needs to send on the
same MIDI channel as that of the destination tracks - i.e. the one you have just armed for recording.
Also, make sure to send the MIDI data into the correct MIDI IN port on the Octopus, i.e. the one
that the track is set to send on (IN 1 or 2).
To cancel multitrack recording press a track selector in combination with the Stop key to disable
track record selection for all tracks in all pages. This basically allows for record re-channelling the
next time a track is armed for recording.

Recording chords
A track will stack the note data input such that you can make up chords by simply playing one note
on top of another. Of course, you will need to be good on timing with this one. Playing chords
directly on your keyboard will also generate a chord on the Octopus step under the chase-light,
making it very easy.
When stacking notes up to make up a chord, you will notice that the length, velocity and start value
of the step will use the values of the last played note for all notes in the chord.

Disable recording
To disable recording for the track in question, simply press the flashing REC button, to return to
rehearse mode. From there press REC again to return to normal operation.


Step note recording

Octopus offers an alternative to note stream recording, and that what we term step-note recording.
Note that this is not the same as step recording in other sequencers, therefore the slightly different
name.
The idea is simple. Once a page is armed for recording, you hold down a step button, play a note on
your keyboard (or whatever MIDI controller you're using), and voila! The step is entered. This only
requires the page to be armed for recording. Simple!

Arming a page for recording
With no track selected, hold down the PAGE button and then press the REC key, and you should
see the REC LED flash Orange. You have now armed the page for recording, allowing you to
perform step-note recording and more.




       88                      Octopus Reference Manual CE v5.30                             88
