Step-note recording
Holding a step on the matrix, and playing a key on your keyboard will assign the note data
(including velocity) to the selected step.
To record more than just one step in a take, simply keep playing on your keyboard and you should
see the played notes fill in one after another. They will default to length 1/16 and will simply follow
the flow of the respective track.
Also note that the recording of MIDI data will follow the pattern described in the following.

Fresh recording
If you step-note record on a step that is turned of (i.e. you pressed it once on, then of again and did
not release the button yet), the step will be freshly assigned the value of the incoming note.

Stacked recording
Step-note recording on a step that is turned on will stack the incoming pitch on top of the already
existing data, letting you effectively create chords.

Chord recording
You may record chords directly, in the same manner as simple notes. You can record chords
stacking on top of what's there already, or starting from scratch.

Track live transposition
Finally, if a track is selected while a page is armed for recording (a track selection may also be
locked in using the SEL button), you will dynamically and directly change the pitch assignment for
that particular track effectively transposing it a playtime.
With only one track selected, and holding the track selector pressed, you may observe the change in
pitch assignment directly in the pitch circle.


Step real-time entry

There is a simple way to tap steps into a track in real time.
Simply grab the track you would like to tap into - you will notice that the STEP LED in the MODE
block turns Red.

Step tapping
While the sequencer is playing, tap the STEP key as you go and you will see that the steps under the
chase-light get toggled on as you tap.
In fact they are placed into the track at the precise position of the tap, within a 1/192 resolution,
trying to reflect to the greatest extent possible what you have entered.
If you are less than satisfied with the results of your play, you may clean up the mess by simply
clearing the track as we have already seen before.

Quantized recording
In the section on attribute map factors, we have described the workings of the factoring mechanism.
One application is non-destructive quantization of track content, including recorded material as you
record it during a live session.
In order to get quantized output, you may want to set the STA factor for the track to the lowest
possible value, in which case the map is not in effect.
Note that you may always increase the factor for the STA map in order to gradually increase the
amount by which steps are pulled or delayed during play.




       89                      Octopus Reference Manual CE v5.30                              89
