Chained track recording
At any time, only one track will be recorded into, and that will be the recording armed track of the
current page.
In order to record takes that are longer than 16 steps, simply build a track chain and enable one of
the chain tracks for recording.

Chained page recording
In complement to the above, you may record takes longer than 128 steps too, by using the page
clustering function.
Simply cluster the necessary number of pages, set their track chain configurations, and enable in
each of the pages the recording tracks.
Generally, when a recording track is part of a chain, the recording "lock" (flashing Red selector
LED) will carry along with the chase-light in that track and move from one track of the chain to the
next.
Note that the Track DIR setting will be followed even during MIDI recording.

Recording re-take/overdub
If you absolutely do not like what you have recorded you can always use the Clear functionality, as
we have seen it before.
Alternatively, you may overdub to a track, and there are two other options as follows:- Whilst the
sequencer running, clicking the Play button will delete the track under the chase light - and, if
recording to a track chain a double-click of the Play button will delete all notes in the track chain.

Data intervals
There is a limitation on the range of data that may be recorded.
While the MIDI protocol allows for pitch and velocity values to be in the range 0...127, this range is
constrained by the internal architecture of Octopus.


MIDI Controller stream recording

Generally, MIDI controller data is recorded as it is coming in, similar to a note stream. Arming and
disabling tracks for recording works in exactly the same way.
Once you have set a track for recording, your controller movements will be recorded onto the
recording track. Also, the description below applies equally to recording pitch bend and channel
pressure data.

Auto-sensing
The track's MIDI CC parameters are auto-sensing the controller and the associated data and will
perform the recording of the controller accordingly.
A fun exercise may be to enter MAP mode and observe the MCC values while turning a knob on
your controller and watch the MIDI CC input being recorded as it comes in.
Please note that tracks whose MCC value is other than "none" (i.e. 4 Green LEDs in the positions
13-16) will have an Orange chase light in PAGE mode.

Considerations
Remember that a track may only play one controller at once.
Therefore, if you have created a controller map for some controller and then operate some other
controller, the map will play the controller data for the last auto-sensed controller.




       90                      Octopus Reference Manual CE v5.30                            90
