This includes pitch bend and channel pressure, which are handled by Octopus in a similar fashion to
a controller.
Note that pitch bend data is recorded using two value bytes (as specified in the MIDI protocol),
essentially with an available resolution of 14 bits.
However, when editing the MCC data you will currently only operate on the most significant 7 bits
of the value. This allows working with bender data to fit the model of working with MIDI CC data.
When clearing the Track CC map (CLR) note that also the least significant 7 bits will be cleared.



MIDI Control Map learning

While somewhat unrelated to what we have discussed so far, another aspect of MIDI recording is
the ability to have a MIDI Control Map learn from the MIDI input.

Entering MIDI Control Map mode
Enter the MIDI Control Map mode by first disabling any recording mode (if necessary), and double
clicking on one of the MIDI Control Map selectors (0-5) at the bottom of the matrix field.

Arm MIDI Control Map learning
While in MIDI Control Map edit mode, press the REC key to arm the learn mode. As soon as you
press the REC key you will see that a Red flashing light will appear in the selector column of the
page.

Select target
Pressing across the selector buttons will move the position of the Red light, and effectively select
the encoder for which we want to make the assignment.
Per default you will see the amounts of the map displayed, and this is the most spectacular place to
be: if you are turning knobs on an external controller you will see the amounts of the learning
encoder go up and down immediately.
However, note that the MIDI channel and the controller number are recorded as well.

Disable MIDI Control Map learning
Simply press the REC key again to exit MIDI Control Map learning mode, and you may switch the
view of the MIDI Control Map accordingly, to verify your results.



External force-to-scale

Forcing MIDI notes to an Octopus scale
While in page mode, with the page armed for recording (press and hold PAGE while clicking REC),
your external MIDI input will be forced to the scale of the current page. Of course, this is assuming
you have a scale enabled for the respective page.
This is especially interesting in performance situations, obviously.

MIDI merge
By selecting a chromatic scale for your page you can effectively implement a MIDI merger
functionality of the data your Octopus is producing and the data that you provide on the MIDI in
port.
Note that this is only applying to note data, and not to other MIDI data, such as controllers.




       91                     Octopus Reference Manual CE v5.30                            91
