7. MIDI

MIDI Index:
               MIDI:                                       MIDI:
   ALL NOTES OFF message                94     MIDI Merge                          94
   Forcing MIDI notes Octopus scale     94     Slave Clock                         93
   Master Clock                         93     Toggle Page/Set - Extn Pgm Ch       94
   MIDI Clock echo (in slave mode)      93



MIDI clock synchronization

MIDI clock selection
Per default, Octopus does not send or react to MIDI Clock information. However, Octopus may act
as a MIDI clock source in your setup, or will synchronize to some other source.
The MIDI clock state is selected and indicated by the button / LED numbered "200" in the top part
of the outer circle.
When Octopus is MIDI clock master, MIDI Clock signal will be sent out of both MIDI ports.
When Octopus acts as MIDI clock slave, MIDI clock will be received on a single port. The MIDI
port that receives MIDI Clock will be automatically detected and requires no explicit selection by
the user.
The MIDI Clock state is remembered as part of the machine state, when the machine state is saved.
See the "Instrument State Save" section on saving the Octopus state.

Master
An unlit clock indicator LED means that Octopus is not sending and not receiving MIDI clock
information.
Pressing the clock selector turns it Orange - indicating that Octopus is sending MIDI Clock as well
as associated transport commands out both MIDI ports. Another press toggles it back to of (default
mode).

Slave
A double click turns it Green or Red (more on that below), meaning that Octopus is now listening to
the MIDI clock and that is acting as a MIDI slave.
Change of clock selection (switching between master and slave mode) is possible only in GRID and
PAGE mode.

MIDI Clock echo (in slave mode)
MIDI clock that is received while the machine is in MIDI slave mode can be sent out to the MIDI
out, so other devices can be slaved along the same chain.
When switching to slave mode using the 200 key, the default colour of the 200LED is Green.
Pressing it once toggles it to Red, with a Red setting meaning that the clock information is passed
through.

'200' button operation
     Led colour                                                  Led Colour
 200 - Orange - Master Midi Clock Send --- Single-click --- 200 - Red - Slave Clock Send (echo'd)
                                            Double-click
 200 - Off - Master No Clock Sent --------- Single-click ---- 200 - Green - Slave No Clock Sent



       93                       Octopus Reference Manual CE v5.30                          93
