ALL NOTES OFF message
When the sequencer is not running but is defined as MIDI master or slave (the 200 LED is lit either
Orange or Green), pressing the Stop button will send out an ALL NOTES OFF message (controller
123) on each of the 32 MIDI channels.

External force-to-scale

Forcing MIDI notes to an Octopus scale
While in page mode, with the page armed for recording (press and hold PAGE while clicking REC),
your external MIDI input will be forced to the scale of the current page. Of course, this is assuming
you have a scale enabled for the respective page.
If recording to a track, and even though the incoming notes will be forced-to-scale, the incoming
note pitch will be recorded. Therefore, if force-to-scale is turned off then the actual recorded note
pitches will play.

MIDI merge
By selecting a chromatic scale for your page you can effectively implement a MIDI merger
functionality of the data your Octopus is producing and the data that you provide on the MIDI in
port.
Note that this is only applying to note data, and not to other MIDI data, such as controllers.


External program change

Octopus allows external control of page toggle states via program change messages. The program
change messages received will be interpreted according to the channel they arrive on. The MIDI
port however does not matter.
Note: External Program Change is only available if the Octopus is in Slave Clock mode.

Arming program change listening
To activate program change listening, you need to go to grid mode, hold the GRID key pressed and
then click the REC key. You will see the REC LED flash Orange. Pressing REC once again will
switch the listening of again.

Grid set selection
Program change messages received on channel 10 will trigger grid set selections in the GRID. It is
equivalent to pressing a grid set selection key in the matrix. The grid set index will be computed as
a modulo function of the incoming program change message.
For example, MIDI program changes 0-15 will select grid sets 1-16 respectively. A MIDI program
change message of 33 will select grid set 2, which is computed as follows: (33 % 16) +1 = 1+1 = 2.

Page toggles
Program change messages received on MIDI channels 1-9 will act as toggle signals for pages in the
respective banks.
Let's take an example: a program change of 33 on MIDI channel 7 will toggle page 2 of bank 7.
If some page other than page 2 was playing in bank 7, page 2 will be activated for play and the
previously playing page will be muted.
Similarly, if page 2 was indeed playing, it will get turned off and no other page in bank 7 will be
playing.




       94                     Octopus Reference Manual CE v5.30                            94
