8.       Load/Save


Load/Save Index:
               Load/Save:                                  Load/Save:
     All pages & machine state export     97     Loading individual pages            95
     Bank exports                         97     Page export                         96
     Data transmission rate               97     Page import                         96
     Export content mode                  96     Saving individual pages             95
     Grid exports                         97     Saving the machine state            95




Saving the instrument state

Octopus can save the full instrument state for later recall - all settings are stored to FLASH memory
and automatically recalled upon power-on.
Note that only one state may be saved to FLASH, replacing any previously saved machine state.
Also note that in order to perform this operation the sequencer has to be stopped.

WARNING:
Please make sure that Octopus is not turned of or reset during the save operation!


Saving the machine state
To perform a save of the machine state go to GRID Mode and press and hold the GRID button.
While you hold down the GRID key, the Program LED will start to flash.
Pressing the Program key will start the save operation. Expect the save operation to take about 5-10
seconds.

Saving individual pages
Occasionally it may be useful to save individual pages only, as opposed to
the full instrument state. For this to work the machine has to be stopped, and you have to be in
GRID mode.
While in GRID mode, make sure that the EDIT LED is lit up flashing Orange, otherwise press it
once to make it light flashing Orange.
Now press and hold the matrix button corresponding to the page you are about to save. This will
reveal a Red flashing Program button (among others).
While holding the matrix button pressed, click on the Red flashing Program button to save the
respective page to memory.

Loading individual pages from flash
To recall an individual page from flash memory, go to PAGE mode of the page you want to recall
from flash first.
Now press and hold the PAGE button, and press the Green flashing ESC button. Note that this
operation may be performed at playtime, i.e. the
sequencer does not have to be stopped for this operation.




         95                        Octopus Reference Manual CE v5.30                       95
