Save Progress
The progress of the save operation is depicted in the note inner circle, and operation completion is
signalled by a complete circle.
NOTE: If a save operation does not complete, the saved memory contents will be irreversibly lost
and the previously saved instrument state will likely become corrupted as well.

Things to remember
Some of this is repeating information, but it may be a good time to remember it.

You can always revert back to the last saved state by simply pressing the reset button found on the
bottom pane of Octopus (just underneath the Tempo knob).
This will clear all changes made since the last save operation. If you power up Octopus while
holding the CLR button, you will start without loading the saved state from memory, starting of
with a virtually fresh machine.

To completely clear the Octopus RAM memory back to the factory default, go into GRID mode,
press and hold GRID, and then press the CLR Mutator button. This does not affect the machine
state saved in FLASH memory in any way.


Exporting memory content to MIDI

Octopus may export content of its memory by the means of MIDI system exclusive (SYSEX)
dumps.
This is particularly useful when you would like to archive data on a computer, or even share
memory content across Octopus machines.
Before you continue, please make sure that the sequencer is stopped.
Connect the MIDI Out 1 port of your Octopus with your receiving device, considering that SYSEX
data will be export out of the Octopus port 1 only.

Export content mode
Three types of SYSEX export streams are available: PAGE, BANK and GRID.
In order to trigger the export operation (SYSEX dump operation), you need to be in the EXC mode
on the Octopus.
To enter the EXC mode, press and hold GRID while pressing the Green flashing EXC / ALN
button. You should see the EXC LED turn Orange and flash steadily.
To exit the EXC mode you may press ESC and return to GRID mode.

Page export
A PAGE export will output the full contents of a page as MIDI SYSEX stream.
 To trigger a page save, while in EXC mode simply press the button of the page that you would like
to export. Only lit matrix buttons will have an effect, basically preventing you from accidentally
dumping empty pages.
Notice that he circle is used as a progression indicator, and pages sent have their LED turned from
Green to Orange (this is true for all dump types) for the duration of the data transfer. A single
exported page should take on the order of 10 KB.

Page import
When played back to the Octopus, a previously exported page will be
reloaded into its original and natural location in the grid, i.e. the position it was in at the time of its
export. This means also that it will overwrite any content in that location.



       96                        Octopus Reference Manual CE v5.30                                96
