Note that playback of SYSEX content to the Octopus may occur at any time, including while the
sequencer is running.
Once the page is received, the machine will switch to GRID mode and the page data is pasted from
the incoming SYSEX buffer into the page memory. This operation is equivalent to a page copy.

Bank exports
 A bank export will export all non-empty pages in a bank, and behaves very similarly to exporting
page content, basically chaining several page export operations.
To trigger a bank export, simply press the button of the bank you would like to export, in the SEL
column.
The duration of a bank export is dependent on the number of pages that will be exported, but as an
indicator, the size of a full bank is on the order of 160KB. Here as well, the circle acts as an
indicator to show progression of the transmission.

Grid exports
 The GRID export is covering all the data that is not page related, but has an influence on the
overall machine behaviour. This includes parameters like strum levels for example.
To initiate a grid export, simply press the Green lit MIX button on the bottom left side of the front
panel.
The exported GRID content will take on the order of 37K, and the circle is used to show the
progression of the transmission.

All pages and full machine state export
Two more options are available for SYSEX dump: dump all pages at once via the SEL key, and
dump the full machine state at once via the EDIT key.
The same results may be achieved by several partial dumps as described above.

Data transmission rate
The throughput of SYSEX data is dependent on the tempo set at transmission time. Adjusting it
knowingly may be useful in cases where your external periphery needs a lower transmission rate
than Octopus is potentially capable of providing. Obviously, a lower transmission rate will result in
more time required by the dump to complete. You may want to
experiment a bit to find the rate that is best suited for your particular setup.

Remarks
Note that you can use the export functionality only while the sequencer is stopped. This is a
measure to ensure concurrent data integrity of the SYSEX dump and timing stability of the material
played.
You may however, receive SYSEX data while the sequencer is playing.
This makes it particularly convenient to substitute memory content on the fly, during performance.




       97                      Octopus Reference Manual CE v5.30                            97
