I.      Octopus Techniques
This section provides some ideas for using the Octopus in ways that may not, at first, be obvious.




Sequence Variation
Octopus has a variety of ways of adding subtle, or not so subtle, variations to a sequence.

Random step rest
The principle of Random note picks from chord pool can also be used without a chord, i.e. on single
notes.
Here's how:- Zoom into a step with just one note and set the polyphony on the chord buttons to 2
this will effectively give a 50/50 chance of the note being played on the step, or a rest.

Example 1
Set up a Track as follows:
Turn on steps 1, 3, 5, 7, 8 (all as single notes) and Mute steps 9 to 16
Now zoom into step 3 and set the polyphony on the chord buttons to 2, do the same for step 7.
Zoom into step 8 and set the polyphony on the chord buttons to 4.

Step phrase note variations
Setting the Step phrase to type 4 will randomize all programmed note attributes so we can have a
random note selection.
Here's how:- Zoom in to phrase edit and chose a phrase you want to edit,
set the type to 4, then set note 2 to PIT +7 and set the polyphony to 1.

With a track set up as in example 1 above zoom into step 5 and set the step to the phrase number
you have just created.
You will hear that step 5 will sometimes play the step note and sometimes the step note +7
semitones.
More variation can be added by increasing the number of PIT offsets in the phrase.

Step phrase timing variations
Again by setting the Step phrase to type 4, we can introduce a timing variation.
Here's how:- Zoom in to phrase edit and chose a phrase you want to edit,
set the type to 4, then set note 2 to STA +12 and set the polyphony to 1.

With a track set up as in example 1 above zoom into step 1 and set the step to the phrase number
you have just created.
You will notice that sometimes the step 1 note plays on step 1 and sometimes it plays on step 2.

Taking this a little further, set up a phrase as follows:
set the type to 4,
set note 2 to STA +12 and PIT +7
set note 3 to STA +24 and set the polyphony to 2.
Now, we change step 1 in example 1 to this new phrase and the following variations can occur:-
Step 1 & step 2 play, or step 1 & step 3 play, or step 2 & step 3 play, AND one of the steps may, or
may not, be offset by +7 semitones.




     100                       Octopus Reference Manual CE v5.30                              100
