Variable Step Sequences
By using hypersteps we can vary the number of steps played in the hyped-track each time the
hyperstep is triggered.
Here's how:- Set up a hyperstep (on step 1) and its associated hyper-track,
on the hyped-track mute steps 9 -16 (so it will only play 8 steps).
On the hyperstep track mute steps 5 - 16 (so it will only play 4 steps) and set the hyperstep track
LEN to 8 (default), then zoom into the hyperstep and change the step length from 192/192(default)
to 48/192 (4 steps). Now zoom into step 4 (last step) of the hyperstep track and set up a step event
for LEN with an AMT of -1.
Each time the hyperstep track plays it will 'scale' the LEN on the hyped-track, so in the above
configuration the number of steps played will vary between 5 steps and 8 steps - the length time
taken to play will be the same.

By populating some of the hyped-track steps with MCC we effectively have something very similar
to a Sample & Hold LFO

Using Step phrases with Chord stacks
When using a Step phrase on a step that holds a chord - the phrase attributes will influence the notes
of the chord, for example, if the phrase has STA timings specified, the notes of the chord will be
played with those STA timings - hence a phrase can be used to create an arpeggio of the chord. The
other phrase attributes can also be used to influence the notes of the chord.
With Step phrases types 1, 2 & 3 - provided the number of notes in the phrase is the same, or
greater, than the number of notes in the chord a simple up, down or random order arpeggio will be
played. If the number of notes in the phrase is less than the number of notes in the chord then the
additional notes will be played on the first step and single notes will be played on the rest of the
arpeggio.
For Step phrases type 4 more variation can be added, for example, when using a 3 note chord with a
4 note phrase - the 3 notes of the chord will be played along with an added note rest. Let's set that
up:
Zoom in to phrase edit and chose a phrase you want to edit, set the type to 4, then set note 2 to STA
+12, note 3 to STA +24, note 4 to STA +36 and set the polyphony to 4.

Now set up a track as follows:
Turn on steps 1, 5, and Mute steps 9 to 16. Now zoom into step 1 and create a 4 note chord then
zoom into step 5 and create a 3 note chord - set both steps to the phrase number we have just
created.
With the above set up then chord on step 1 will 'arpeggio' and play on steps 1, 2, 3 and 4 and the
chord on step 5 will play its 3 notes plus 1 rest in random order across steps 5 to 8.
A similar effect can be created across steps 1 to 4 by using the chord buttons to change the step 1
polyphony from 4 to 3.

Setting the Loop Length of an Indeterminate Length Track Direction
A Track with a DIR containing brownian slices will effectively have an indeterminate length. It
may be musically desirable to fix the loop point of such a track, and this can be done putting the
indeterminate length Track on a separate Page and using the Page Cluster Page LEN function.




     101                       Octopus Reference Manual CE v5.30                            101
