II. System load handling

Natural bottlenecks
The flexibility for composition offered by Octopus translates into
possibly huge amounts of data being generated at a given time.
This makes two natural bottlenecks visible: the bandwidth of the MIDI pipe and the capacity of the
Octopus central processing unit (CPU).

Load monitoring and dropping
Octopus is built with timing stability in mind. However, too high loads of data would result in
potentially massive glitches. To prevent that Octopus constantly monitors its load.
Should any of the two bottlenecks be full, load will start to get ignored. This is indicated to the user,
which may choose to reduce load in general - or not, being aware of what is going on.

Overload signalling and overload protection
The CHORD block of the panel is used to indicate overload or potential overload as follows:
      Overload on the MIDI1 port is indicated by a Red lit CHORD1 LED.
      Overload of the MIDI2 port is indicated by a Red lit CHORD2 LED.

What the lights really tell you is that the respective MIDI port pipe is too full to carry additional
load, and some MIDI data was potentially dropped. One way to work around this is to make sure
you use both MIDI ports and distribute the load accordingly between the two.

CPU load is a bit trickier, since the CPU has many tasks to complete.
For all practical purposes, CPU overload means that not all data may have been processed by the
CPU in a timeframe that would allow timing to stay relatively stable (our subjective impression).
CPU (over-) load is indicated in the CHORD3 to CHORD7 LEDs in two stages:

       Stage One indicates that CPU is at about 80% load.
       This is shown by the CHORD3-CHORD5 LEDs being Orange.

       Stage two indicates that the CPU is overloaded,
       indicated by CHORD6 and CHORD7 LEDs lit up Red.

       All data that was not processed was obviously ignored.




     102                        Octopus Reference Manual CE v5.30                             102
