Octopus - tutorial series



Editing track directions
Besides offering a state-of-the art set of track run directions, Octopus allows
direction editing by the user. Here we introduce this unique feature hands-on.


                            Diving right in, let’s start with an empty page. Select an empty page
                            and zoom into a track (use track 9 for this example).


                            Getting prepared
                               • Use the DIR edit knob to select direction 6.
                               • Double click on the DIR Selector button.
                               • While the below may be carried out with the sequencer running
                                 or stopped, we recommend you stop the sequencer to minimize
                                 distractions while editing.
                            You should see a ﬂashing DIR SEL light, a ﬂashing LED in row 0 (in-
                            dicating the time slice or position to be edited), and a solid orange
                            LED in step 0 (the direction map you are editing – 6 in this example).


                            Step double-play
                            Let’s start with a simple variation - have steps 1, 5, 9, and 13 play twice.
                               • Select slice 1 in row 0. The red LED in position 1 of row 1 indi-
                                 cates that when the ﬁrst position is played, step 1 triggers.
                               • We want step 1 to trigger twice, so toggle position 1 of row 2 on.
                               • Make sure the LEDs in all other rows are oﬀ.
                               • Now click on button 5 of row 0. You should see a similar situa-
                                 tion - position 5 of row 1 is on - toggle position 5 of row 2.
                            Repeat for steps 9 and 13. Slow the tempo way down and start the
                            sequencer - you should see it ‘pause’ on steps 1, 5, 9, and 13. It is actu-
                            ally playing these steps twice.
                            You can exit out to Page mode, activate some steps on Track 9 (in-
                            cluding steps 1, 5, 9, and 13), and listen as it plays.
                            Since you added 4 step triggers (doubling steps 1, 5, 9, 13), at the end
                            of 1 pass, that track will be 4 steps behind the rest of the sequence
                            (i.e. - when it cycles back to position 1, the rest of the tracks will be
                            on position 5). This is either good or bad, depending on what you
                            wanted to do.
                            One way around this is to mute steps 14, 15, 16 and set step 13 to only
                            a single trigger to get back to 16 steps per cycle.




                                                 1 of 4
                                        © genoQs Machines, 2007
