Octopus - tutorial series



Using LFO-type modulations
LFOs are so deeply rooted into traditional synthesis systems that users feel
they should have the same type of functionality in a sequencer!



                            Goal
                            Octopus does provides on-board tools to create modulations that are
                            typically created using LFOs - low frequency oscillators.
                            Our example shows how to modulate MIDI CC data using LFO type
                            modulations, but the described technique applies equally to using tar-
                            gets such as velocity, pitch, and other attributes.


                            Basic setup
                            1. Switch to page mode.
                            2. In the page, choose a track and set it up to send out MIDI CC
                               data on a chosen CC# and a chosen MIDI channel.
                            3. Zoom into the CC map of your chosen track, where you will be
                               able to draw or program the desired “shape” of the modulation.
                            4. Set the appropriate speed relation to other tracks (to get a higher
                               resolution of sending out the data) on the same MIDI channel.
                            5. Use the remaining tracks of the page to create the musical se-
                               quence you would like the modulation applied to.
                            6. Make sure that you set the note-holding tracks to the same MIDI
                               channel as the modulator track in order to hear the eﬀect.


                            Once you have succeeded with the above, you may take your modula-
                            tions to the next level. This means, you can start to modify the ampli-
                            tude, the period, or both.
                            Here is a quick reference on the tools you have:


                            Changes to the modulation amplitude
                            The amplitude of the modulation can be adjusted by various means:
                               • By modifying the shape of the modulation map itself
                               • By adjusting the map factor, manually or by using step events
                               • By adjusting the map position, using track position events
                               • By using the Eﬀector to apply dynamic changes to the map
                               • All of the above combined

                                                1 of 2
                                       © genoQs Machines, 2007
