Octopus - tutorial series



Real-time MIDI CC control
The Octopus encoders may be used to send MIDI CC data and hence control
both external gear and internal sequences. Here’s how to put them to work.


                            Standard implementation
                            Octopus has a standard MIDI CC implementation that spits out a
                            CC amount per step. To set this up is a three step process:
                            1. Go into Track mode and set the MIDI CC (MCC) to a particular
                               controller number.
                            2. Either zoom into a particular step, or else bring up the Track at-
                               tribute Map for MCC. This is done by pressing the MCC Selector
                               button then pressing ZOM to bring up the MCC map.
                            3. Set the MCC amount for any step or steps in the track.
                            As the track plays, you’ll hear the MIDI CC aﬀecting your sound.
                            Remember to set your synthesizer to respond to that CC message.
                            In addition to this method, Octopus gives you real-time control for
                            sending MIDI CC data.


                            Real-time MIDI CC
                            Using the MIX knobs in Page mode, you have control of up to 10 dif-
                            ferent MIDI cc streams PER MAP PER PAGE.
                            That means with the touch of a button, you have control over 50
                            MIDI CCs on a page.


                            Setting it up
                               • In Page mode select a Page that has some active steps.
                               • Double-click on the MAP 1 button under the matrix. You
                                 should see 3 SEL buttons light up (AMT, MCC, MCH) and one
                                 (AMT) should be blinking.
                               • For this tutorial, skip changing the AMT and press the MCH
                                 button. This allows you to set the MIDI channel for each knob.
                            The MIDI channel selected here does not have to match the Track
                            channel. The MIX knobs are completely independent of the Tracks.
                            After setting the channels, press the MCC button. This is where you
                            set the MIDI CC number for each knob. ESC out and try it.
                            With the sequencer running, start twisting the MIX knobs and listen
                            to what happens. You should hear the MIDI CCs having an eﬀect on
                            the synthesizer.



                                               1 of 2
                                       © genoQs Machines, 2007
