Octopus - tutorial series


                            Advanced tweaking
                               • Go back to Grid mode (press the GRID button).
                               • Turn on Page Clustering (press the SEL button for that row
                                 turning the LED green).
                               • Activate a second page next to the current one by double-
                                 clicking on the next button in the same row.
                               • Program some steps in that page as well.
                               • Go back to Grid mode.
                            When the sequencer starts, you should see the two adjacent Page
                            LEDs changing as ﬁrst one page is played then the next. For now,
                            turn Follow oﬀ (green LED) and go back into the ﬁrst page you set up
                            (with the MIX MIDI cc knobs).
                            Start the sequencer and watch as the chase light plays this page and
                            then disappears while it plays the second page in the cluster. Now try
                            turning the MIX MIDI cc knobs.
                            You will ﬁnd that the MIDI cc changes will have an eﬀect even if the
                            Octopus is playing another page in the cluster. This allows you to
                            make real-time changes to a track or tracks even if you have many
                            pages clustered together.


                            Interesting side eﬀect
                            There is an interesting and useful side eﬀect to this behavior. If you
                            set up diﬀerent MIX mode cc maps on diﬀerent pages, they will only
                            be active when that page data is displayed in the matrix.
                            So, by turning Follow on and oﬀ, or by leaving Follow oﬀ and directly
                            selecting pages with a double-click, you can freeze diﬀerent pages
                            (and hence diﬀerent MIDI CC maps) in the display. This gives you
                            quick access to a lot of MIDI CC potential while the song is playing.
                            Note that each page allows up to 5 CC maps to be deﬁned and the
                            currently selected map is saved with each page so you can have Page 1
                            with map 1 selected, Page 2 with map 2, and Page 3 with map 5 se-
                            lected and the display will update accordingly with each page change.


                            Banks
                            Octopus has a setup for banks (a row of pages) to let you make some
                            global changes to a group of pages when you’re in Grid mode.
                            That frees you up from being on a speciﬁc page, but it constrains you
                            to a speciﬁc set of MIDI controllers at that point (although you can
                            still have 5 diﬀerent MIDI maps and switch between them using the
                            row of buttons under the matrix).
                            You set up the MIX knob functionality for the Grid CCs the same
                            way you did for Pages.


                                               2 of 2
                                       © genoQs Machines, 2007
